 Please stand by for realtime captions. 
>> Please stand by for realtime captions.  
>> Good morning. How are we all doing? Real click you will notice there is a piece of paper on your chair. It does not mean it was reserved for someone else. The paper will be used in the keynote. How was the party last night? Who went out to the parties? Maybe they are not here. How was karaoke? Okay. How many people showed up to karaoke? 50? I hear the place is pretty cool. It was remarkable? Who all went to the [ Indiscernible - low volume ] party? It was good, right-click very nice to hear all of that. We will be sending out a survey as mentioned yesterday. We have a survey and it is going to go out. We love your feedback so that will go out sometime this morning. We love to hear your feedback on the conference and what we can do better. Also, T-shirts. I have seen many people ask about T-shirts. It happens today, I believe anytime today but it may be at lunch. It is lunch. You can exchange or by T-shirts and we don't have to worry about all these extra T-shirts so everybody wins. We will get to our trivia now. 
>> The Biltmore Hotel was established in 1923. It is currently 95 years old and has been in constant operation since it was built. It's style has not changed markedly which I think all of us can say that sounds about right. Apparently the hallways and the bathrooms have been refreshed and modernized a bit which is good. Thank you for that. The style essentially has remain the same. This style is unique and is inspired by Italian and -- I have not seen place quite like this so that is your trivia for the morning. 
>> Without further ado we will have Jessie Shternshus come up and she will be our keynote speaker this morning . 
>> [ Applause ] 
>> Hello, everyone. How is everybody doing quite -- doing? Thank you for having me. I love being part of the Ruby community so I am excited to be here with you today. Today we are going to talk about  on learning and the challenge of change. Hopefully you have had your coffee because I am going to break your brain a little bit. We are going to do an exercise together. It looks like this. Can everybody see that? We are going to look up at the top left-hand corner and look at where that word is placed and we will save the correct directional word of where that word is placed. What does that say? Up, correct. We are going to be together going across. We are going to read all the way through and if you stumble high-five yourself or your partner, it is all good. It is just a game. We will start at the beginning on the count of three and what word should that would be? Up. 
>> Up, down, up, left, right, up, down, [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> Some of you have had some good coffee because that was pretty phenomenal. Very good. How many of you messed up a but left it to the louder voices to pick up where you left off? Teamwork. Good job, everyone. 
>> Our environment where we live and work allows us to unlearn -- 
>> I am the owner of the improv affect and I started my company 11 years ago already. I help people worldwide  with communication, collaboration and creative problem-solving. I actually had a lot of my start of my career in the Ruby community.  One of my first jobs was working in Jacksonville part of where I am from and that is where I got introduced into the Ruby community  and loved it. It was a warm feeling and pushing the envelope and I felt like these are my people, I like these people. I have had a really long unlearning journey in general in terms of my work history. I was a  TV set or when I was little. I have my own kids so maybe I am still a babysitter. After that I even worked at Disney. I was a costume character there. When you are in a fuzzy thing with slits for eyes and you have no peripheral vision and have parts for hands and they expect you to sign things. That's cute. I unlearning that as well. I was a teacher for several years and then started my company and that is where I am today.  It is a long unlearning journey, but it has been a lot of fun. 
>> This summer I had the opportunity to go to  agile Australia. I was nervous to be so far away from my family but I tried to embrace in the present where I was. I had a couple of friends from the states who were there with me and that night we took and we were -- to the dinner. As I was getting in the car we are all piling in and there were four of us so someone had to sit up front. My friend Sarah goes to the door and opens the door and the driver is like [ Indiscernible - low volume ] she slams the door back and was like sorry. He said did you want to drive and she said no. Clearly we had not unlearned anything. She almost sat on the driver, he thought he was being held up , it was not cute at all. We made another terrible American impression overseas. Good job, you're welcome. 
>> This is a way of life. It is constant. We are constantly having to shift and make room for something new. What is unlearning quite when we learn, we add new skills or knowledge to what we already know.  When we unlearn we step outside of our mental model in order to discard something that no one makes sense  to make room for that something new. I like to pick up in it like this. Maybe all along things have been working, but at some point you feel like you are shoving that square peg into the round hole you say this work yesterday and this morning and now it is broken. You have to look for something else. In my mind I picture it like you then need to discard that and find something new. There are three levels of unlearning. It happens on an individual level, on a team or group level, and it also happens at the organizational level.  There are two types of unlearning situations. Those  two types are one where know habits are formed at all and the other is where habits are formed. 
>> For instance, if you gave me a book about rocket science I might learn something that I would have a very hard time letting go of that. However, if you told me not to put on my seatbelt anymore, even though I'm a child of the 80s where we did a lot of things that are really strange like it turned out parents were like you don't need a car seat, just buckle up and hope you live. I buckled up at least, thanks mom and dad. I do that without thinking. 
>> Last year we had a hurricane in Florida where I am from and we were all huddled in the hallway and we lost electricity and things like that. I remember going through to get stuff around the house and I kept flipping the switch. I had the knowledge that we have lost our electricity, but the habit one. I was constantly flipping things on and by the time I did that we had electricity already because we were on the same grid as the fire station. We were winners in this situation. It worked out well. 
>> How many of you heard the saying it is just like riding a bike? Have you heard that saying? I want to show you this video about writing a bike, but maybe not when you have ever ridden before. 
>> [ Video playing ]  
>>  I did something. I did something that damaged my mind. It happened on the streets of Amsterdam and I got really scared, honestly. I cannot ride a bike you can anymore. Before I show you the video of what happened I need to take the back story. What many controlled I learned how to ride a bike when I was really young. [ Indiscernible - low volume ] I was really proud of it. Everything changed when my friend Barney called me 25 years later. Where I work the welders are geniuses and like to lay jokes on the engineers. He had a challenge for me. He built a special bicycle and he wanted me to try to write it. The only change one thing. When he turned the health of our to the left the wheel goes to the right. When you turn right the wheel goes left. I thought it would be easy so I jumped on the bike [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> Is first attempt at writing the bicycle. There's attempt at writing a bicycle. 
>> I couldn't do it. You can see that I am laughing but I'm really frustrated. At this moment I had a deep revelation. My thinking was in a rut. This bike revealed a very deep truth to me. I have the knowledge of how to operate the bike but I could not have the understanding. Therefore knowledge is not understanding. I know what you're probably saying. I'm probably an uncoordinated engineer -- it is just that complicated. Think about it, leaving her whole body [ Indiscernible - low volume ] every single force is part of this algorithm. It can change anyone part which affects the entire control system. I do not make definitive statements that often but I'm telling you now you cannot ride this bicycle. You might think you can, but you can't. I know this because I am also asked to speak at universities and conferences and I take the bicycle with me. It is always the same. People think they will try to trick or power through it. It does not work. Your brain cannot handle this. For instance, I offered him $200 just to ride this bicycle [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. Everybody thought he could do it. [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> Once you have a rigid way of thinking in your head sometimes you cannot change that, even if you want to. 
>> [ Indiscernible - low volume ] 
>> Here is what I did. It was a personal challenge. I stayed in the driveway and practice for five minutes every day. My neighbors made fun of. I have a lot of racks, but after eight months, this happened. One day I could not ride the bike and the next day I could. It was like I could feel a pathway in my brain now unlocked. It was weird. It was like a trail in my brain but [ Indiscernible - low volume ] my brain would easily lose that path and jump back onto the old road it was familiar with. Any distraction at all with through my brain back to the old control algorithm but at least I could write it. My son is the closest person to me genetically and has been riding a bike for three years, that is over half his life. I wanted to know how long it would take him to write a backwards bike. I told him if he learned how to write it he could go with me to Australia and meet a real astronaut. Are you going to give up next 
>> No. 
>> It sounds like a babysitter when I was growing up. Why do we think the child, his son who he was treating so nicely was able to figure out how to ride his bike in three weeks? Why is that? Yes. It is easier for him to unlearn. When we are children, we have not necessarily been told what is right or wrong so we  don't know to stay in one line. We can kind of experiment. We are naturally more curious. We are constantly asking why. All of those things lead us to being better at letting go of things. We are like a sponge of knowledge, we don't have one way telling us right or wrong. 
>> When I was researching and coming up with things I wanted to share in the talk it was really interesting the things that Einstein is most famous for and are the most profound actually happen very early in his career. Even though he became equally knowledgeable, it still did not mean that the things he came up with for the most profound. I thought this was interesting. Yesterday was a really wonderful keynote and she talked about newbies and what they go through and what it's like to be there and how there is a place for them. It is true. I think that every newbie, think of them almost like the child picks up something really fast because I have not done it before they are ringing a perspective that is extremely valuable. We should not second-guess that. The perspective is really, really important. 
>> I often have people say to me I want to be a speaker but I am not an expert yet. I have nothing to share. That is not true. You actually have really interesting things to see other people may not have talked about because we have not been for you have been for a long time. 
>> When I had students in improv I typically would have to make different types of students would come. Summer students who had done improv before in other troops and have been performers before and I would have brand-new people. What I would find out is as we are forming a new team, just like you may form a team at work for you tend to let go of your old ways and you have a new language that you worked with. You have a new way of doing things with everyone. The people who were new to improv had a much easier time in their curve of learning and it was much shorter the ones who have done improv before because they had different habits that our team needed to be stellar and perform. 
>> I love this quote. In the beginner's mind there are many possibilities and in the experts mind there are few. This is about, again, being told over and over again there is one way or there is only this way that you can do something and we have to figure out how to be more experience. I would like to play a little game. Here is how it goes. You are going to turn to the person next to you and we are going to play a game called space numbers. How it work is the first person is going to draw numbers in space. Then you are going to go to 10. You are not going to say the numbers. Person number two is going to marry you. They are going to be doing your numbers mirrored. You are going to see a mirror going on together. As soon as you get to 10 I would like for you to switch so that people get a chance to be tortured. If you will and you don't have to really say anything. Give it a shot. 
>> Okay. Is everybody finished? Okay. How many of you want to play space numbers in the hallway after this? 
>> [ Laughter ] how many of you felt like you did a perfect? How many of you had a hard time doing the number four records? Was it all downhill from there? In all seriousness, this is a game about empathy. What does it feel like for somebody to have to do something different and replace it with something they have not done before? Take it away and physically in the space do it differently? Think about how hard it is to draw the number four backwards and think about the empathy you need when somebody new is coming into a team or you are trying to lead a change to do a process or project in a different way. Remember what it was like to have to do this backwards and have some patience with herself and with each other. 
>> What is happening in your brain when you are unlearning?  As we are learning we are forming these neural pathways in the part of our brain called the basal going legally basal ganglia. We're doing this over and over and forming a path. I like to think of it is a big field. With our brain is a big field and I'm walking in the grass probably from either rest is up to hear but if you are taller it is more realistically here. I'm going from point A to point B and back to point A. I am walking through the grass and going back and forth. What is happening to the grass as I keep doing the same thing over and over again? What happens to the grass? It is pushed down. All of a sudden I'm like you want me to do this thing? Okay. I'm going through the grass this way. Has the grass grown back yet over here? For a long time there is still a nice pass in the field. This is what is happening in your brain. It does not happen overnight that you are like goodbye learning. I'm going to unlearn  and go this way. There is still a very clear path. 
>> The unlearning curve is long but necessary. We don't want to end up like these guys.  They loved racing for a long time. Every day they got out in the turtle thought he was going to lose and he one. They were paying attention to things going on around them. We don't want to be those roadkill people animals. We don't want to be with them. Look up and notice there is a moving truck. Notice what is going on around you and don't be so hyper focused on something that you miss the change going on around you. 
>> I want to get personal for a second. A couple of years ago I was asked to work with some of the students at the for the school for the deaf and client . -- She recommended me to them as part of the Ruby community. They called me and said we would like for you to work with our visually impaired students teaching them  using improv and other methods to help them get ready for work, for interviewing for a job, for being on the job the first day. It made me very nervous, to be honest. One, I thought there is no way this would work. I thought that improv really had to be done with site. I didn't think you would be able to do it and do it well if you cannot see, because so much of it is about eye contact and reading body language. It is that I was stuck. I think the bigger problem is that I was super scared to work with an entire population of visually impaired students because I had not done it before. I was ignorant, I wasn't really sure what I say something offensive and I did not want to do that. This inner critic kept saying all the reasons why this wasn't going to work. It almost prevented me from doing it. Luckily, and I don't know why, but I decided maybe this is exactly what you should do. Maybe this is interesting that you fear should be. 
>> I started to take apart what I have learned and said if I need to teach them improv and the students don't have sites, how can I do that? I started to create a curriculum that did not rely on sight. It turned out to be one of the best job I ever had. We worked with them for multiple years and I said other teachers of mine to work with them . Thank goodness I did not run away from that fear of something that I thought would it work. 
>> Let's take a self-awareness healthy and examine our own beliefs. I want you to ask yourself these questions, please. Do I need to think, behave or do things in a new way? Is their previous learning that is preventing me from taking, behaving or doing things in new ways? Like working at the Florida school for the deaf and lines? Is what I am trying to learn  threat or challenge to my identity or how I see myself or how I see the world? What trying harder give me the results I'm looking for or my it create more entrenchment? 
>> The other day I was reading all of Alan Cooper's tweets that were just unbelievable. I think that he saved them which was just incredible. This one caught my attention. There is no mind harder to change the one that has been hugely rewarded for not changing. You need to think about that. If this old way has worked for you and you keep being rewarded for it, it is really hard to get it yourself there is a reason why you need to unlearn and change.  Unlearning is all around us. It is in everything that we do. 
>>  How many of you are familiar with this@? -- This sign? What have we been taught about that? How do we know? The dress. The Cape. My friend Tonya who is an amazing person in speaker, she worked for Obama and was asked to go out into the world and find something that people see all the time that maybe they don't necessarily think about questioning and get us to see it differently. The old tale goes that she was walking around and she sees a bathroom sign. She sees and says what if that was never addressed, what if it was the Cape? It is a brilliant way of thinking that we take things for granted? What if it was there the whole time but we never questioned it. She started a really cool women's movement around this. I challenge you the next time you have to use the facilities to see if you can't un-see it. She did a really good job of getting that to stick with us. 
>> Let's look at this one and you tell me. I'm going to go to. What about this? Any ideas what you think this might be the side attack of the vending machine? What else could it be? Rock climbing. A very rectangular rock. What else could it be? Dancing with it. We will not name what it is that we know that you are dancing with the. This side of went wrong? Totally. Lowering the ramp by hand. We are going to go ahead and lowered the ramp really quick before you go across the bridge. That is why it takes so long when the bridge comes down. Any other things it could be? Yes. I find myself in a situation all the time. Opening the door poorly. Any other ideas? He is struggling with the bookcases. One more. Giant man tipping over skyscraper. 
>> What about this one. What do be? [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. They can. Three bacon getting ready to run free. What else could it be? Yields. Doing what? What are they doing? Synchronized swimming, Doug. That one was not in my blind spot. I have seen a lot of that in my childhood. Line dancing. Anything else? A snake talking. How is it going? Fancy seeing you here. Anything else? Hot pizza. Let's hope we see this assignment later today. We will all see it differently even though we have never seen it before. 
>> The point is it is easy to name things when you have never put them in context. When you have never seen it before, there is nothing to let go of so it is easier to get creative and think about all the possibilities. When it is the bathroom sign you have seen forever, it is harder to unlearn that and make room for  the Cape. 
>> What are unlearning  organizations? An organization that cannot unlearn will never become a learning organization. Often times when I'm working in companies we are getting people that are paralyzed. Maybe they are going  from waterfall to agile or learning a new programming language or learning to work in a very different way and they wonder why people cannot move forward. It is because they are skipping a huge step. They are ignoring that they need to unlearn before they can be forward.  
>> Transformation is not a transactional activity. It is ongoing and it changes over time from our friend Dan. When I get calls on the improv effects and they say we are having a lot of problems with our entire organization and everybody is not getting along and nobody will talk to each other, we cannot retain our people and we have an off-site in two hours, can you help us with that? I am like no. I cannot make miracles happen. I can get you started but it takes practice. That transformation definitely cannot happen in an off-site in two hours. Good luck to you. Mental models eventually become the company values. When you are in a startup and you are in that 8 to 15 or 25 people, the mental models of the founders start to become the culture and the values. At some point it can blow up in your face that you have not made it and it the longer works. You need to unpack what those things are, one of his behaviors, how do we do things, will it still work were not? They are equally ingrained in everybody who has come into the business and as you grow that is more challenging, more and more challenging as each person comes in. 
>> Change is hard because you are constantly playing this game of tug-of-war. You have this is how I do it on the side and try something new. It does not go anywhere when everybody is feeling like that. What about the company's? These are companies that were great in their heyday and now there is snow Jeffrey giraffe. That is upsetting. I actually heard that they are selling them at Walgreens. I don't know how only Jeffrey made it but none of the other toys. These are companies that were doing really great things in them they were like the tortoise and the hare. They did not look up. They did it change fast enough or unlearn fast enough so they are the longer with us.  
>> What are some examples of unlearning at work ?  What are things that you may have to unlearn at work  what are things you may let go of? Anybody get a new laptop or the keyboard is slightly different than it was before? Any others you can think of? Language. Exactly. Absolutely. Yes. If you are bilingual I am talking a little bit of this and a little bit of that and you have to stop and say which language in my using when? How can we unlearn -- the dynamics of leadership in our company and think about maybe is there another way we could do this that would work better? Maybe it served as when we were a much smaller company but now that we are bigger we need to let go of fact and understand that it does not work that way, maybe form new teams or different leadership team or have a flat organization. We don't want to do this, when I was your age and they are exactly the same way. Don't inspire to be grandpa caveman. 
>> How to make things happen? Here is an acronym for you. Here is how we can help our team make changes. [ Indiscernible - low volume ] hear what they have to say and by hearing, don't just hear them but actually take it in and really hear them. Identify the value to change. What is in it for them? Find ways to break down barriers and then train them with experiential methods day by day [ Indiscernible - low volume ] in order to learn something new. 
>> When we tried to surface of substance which is the first step, think about whether when you are told that you had to do something if you are very motivated by that were what if it is different and you want to do something? If you are leading a team and you have to do these kinds of changes, really think about what is in it for them. Why would they want to change and not because you said so, but what would make them motivated to get up every morning and go in the direction of the vision that you have? It is not about what you want, it is about what they want. 
>> Unlearning is hard and empathy is required. Go back and think about writing that four backwards. It is funny, but it is hard. Think about it. Think about what it was like on your first day when you walk around and hear a bunch of acronym  you think what is the? If I was walking around and I heard MRI I do not think I would related to the Ruby community I would wonder if I needed to get scanned or something. Often times  we may come from a different industry and become a developer. We have named these acronym something completely different so we are thinking about it and we are having a completely different conversation than the other person. Remember what that is like to make sure people understand. I know at this conference in particular, we have been told to make sure we make a list of these things and tell everybody what they mean so that people don't have to feel silly for asking. They can go to that and look it up so that they feel included in the conversation. 
>> So you have a piece of paper and if you will I would like for you to write one thing you are struggling unlearning. Can be personally or at work and then you are going to write it down as legibly as you can and I would like for you to make a paper airplane  but don't throw it. Try your hardest. Take a minute into that, please. 
>> -- Take a minute and do that, please. 
>> If you want to make it a different way, go for it. If you see that someone does not have a pen too over. What is something you need to unlearn either personally or at work ? 
>> Don't feel bad if your claim does not apply. Mine usually goes straight to the floor. I will give you 20 seconds and we're going to stand up and I will count down and we will throw airplanes at each other. It ready. You have about 15 more seconds. If you will and if you are on this side you are going to aim and you all are going to face this way but don't throw it yet. Don't get ahead of yourself. Get up the best that you can and look at the other side of the room   here is what we're going to do. I'm going to count to three and if you have an airplane the lands close to you you are going to read it and we will read what other people wrote. Maybe you will read something that you can relate to. Once you pick up your airplane -- sit down and I will call on people. 
>> Okay. Ahead and read those. I have one here it's someone doesn't have one. Open your airplane the has landed in your lab and we have a couple of people with microphones and if somebody could stand up and read one there you go. Right there. You can read the next if you want. 
>> [ Indiscernible - low volume ] and movement muscle memory. 
>> Mice. -- Nice. 
>> Going it alone. 
>> [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> Amen to that. 
>> Being lazy. Yes. Nice. 
>> Apologizing for all of my mistakes because everybody makes them. 
>> [ Applause ] unlearn sleep.  Okay. There are doctors for that. Anybody else? 
>> I need to unlearn idea that my self-worth  depends upon my income. 
>>, -- [ Applause ] needing to say and fix all of the things. Yes. 
>> How to delegate rather than exert control. 
>> Another good one. I cannot see. 
>> The one I have is finding excuses. 
>> Unlearn  finding excuses. 
>> [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> Controller before action. 
>> Believe that people can -- can't change. 
>> That I don't belong in this industry. 
>> [ Applause ] 
>> I think we are going to -- thank you for sharing. I thought those were really good. Hopefully you know you are among friends here and you may have heard something you did not write down what you can relate to. You may have heard something that you did write down and remember this is a great community of people who are here to help. We have lots of resources to do that and lots of people struggle with things that they may not feel comfortable telling. Asked how people are doing it ask what you can do to help. What are the rules for getting ahead? First we need to figure out how to change this habit. We also need to figure out how to change those mindsets. How can we let go of that mindset that I don't belong here? We need to bring in an outsider perspective. 
>> Last year I was working for a big food company in their innovation lab and we were spending a couple of days trying to solve the problem of food waste. -- We tried all of the different places where food gets wasted and how can we make it better? Were coming up with all of these ideas and I was walking back to the hotel. Typically when I'm out of town I call my family, my daughter was 10 at the time she answered the phone and said what are you doing? I said I was working, working on solving the problem of food waste. She said what is that? I said think about Thanksgiving. You have all of this food in a lot of time allotted to get thrown out and it could be used for something else or maybe we don't need to have as much of that food. She said you spent all week working on food waste? Why? That is not hard. I said really? She said take it taste like chocolate. And I thought, where were you when I needed to? 
>> She thinks mommy is -- solving a problem of food waste just make it taste like chocolate in it would not get wasted. 
>> I share this with people in innovation lab and although they do not turn their chicken nuggets into chocolate which is upsetting and I'm still trying to fight for that idea, they took something away from it which was the child's perspective. At this company they have an internship program where kids in junior high during the summer get to learn different things about their business. What is happening now is the junior high students now get to go to the innovation lab and solve real problems because they saw that there was actually something really important about that point of view that they were not capturing within their own team. 
>> We need curiosity, transportation and play. -- Experimentation or play. There is something called [ Indiscernible - low volume ] where you can take a piece of paper and you think about one place or problem. If you were to think about the idea of a restaurant and you wanted to think about how you can make restaurants different you would write down all of the attributes on one side of a restaurant. The restaurant has chairs, a restaurant have tables, food, menus, servers. You write those all down. On the other side of the paper across from the attribute to change one thing. One of the restaurant did not have tables? What would the restaurant be like? What you are doing is questioning. You are not changing everything, but even that one little bit of unlearning, the one escape thinking challenge can change the way  that we think about the way and things we do. It is a simple thing. You can start with something that is real world but not in your own. Go in goes into an abyss of problems and work from that into an actual work problem. This is a really great's us to try. 
>> You can conduct unlearning really is. How many of you have feedback 360 or do some sort of  review with your company? How many of you have done unlearning reviews?  Nobody. What if when you meet with your peers, management, team, leaders, you talk about what did you unlearn in the past few months? What is something you let go of the made room for something new? What if you flipped that question or added to it and had  the unlearning review? Would be used in product ? It seems -- because you are using your whole body to learn it sticks with you a whole lot longer. 
>> How about practicing it every day? You don't need to do an off-site every single day, but just two minutes or five minutes here and there for you are doing a little bit of unlearning and eventually you will let go of the thing that needs to change.  
>> If you like the game this is a book that I wrote. Every chapter is a different type of game you can use with your team and experiments with fun things. 
>> Also, we target doing workshops. [ Indiscernible - low volume ] which is a great Ruby company out of Chicago started this thing called the shop which is about getting people to get out of there  regular environment unplugged, be away, let go and unlearn in this beautiful environment and connect with each other and with themselves while walking . 
>> What are you going to unlearn first?  It is not the strongest of the species that survive or the most intelligent. It is the one that is most adaptable to change. [ Indiscernible - low volume ] don't forget to unlearn. Thank you. 
>>  [ Applause ] 
>> We are on the final day. If you could, by the way, if you could take your paper airplanes to the recycle bin near the water coolers and put them there. That would be awesome. Have a great day. 
>> [ Captioner standing by ] 
>> Hello, everyone. Thank you for [ Indiscernible - low volume ] called know title required, how leadership can come from anywhere. Why do we want to be a leader? I will let the question settle in for a few seconds. Why do we want to be leaders? Money, right? Leaders get stuff done and people who get stuff done this week on beds of money. -- Aside from money they may want to be leaders because leaders have outside influences and notoriety in their profession. They give speeches, they influence lots of people and they have a huge long list of accomplishments. 
>> As you all may know there have been countless studies and papers done to try to figure out what qualities these people have in regular people like you and me can use these qualities. Statistically we're not going to be the next Bill Gates. Yes, we are still drawn to these people and we want to be more like these types of people. 
>> I have told you basically money and thing. That sounds so shallow and boring and obvious, right? I hope to show you that leadership is not just those two things, and I also hope to shake that leadership is in fact one of the most accessible things. 
>> My name is Jim Liu and I am in  engineer at a payroll management company in San Francisco. I have been in the software industry for almost a decade and I have never had an official leadership sounding title. Rather than try to convince you that I have any leadership credentials or anything like that, I will start by giving you some initial thoughts on what I think leadership is. 
>> First and foremost I think leadership is a personal journey. There is snow such thing as the leadership equation. You cannot plug in the number of people you mentor it and get some leadership score. Likewise, there is nothing that says that leadership is reserved for anyone at any particular stage of your career. Any conversation on leadership has to begin with the understanding that leadership is something really personal. We have our own timelines and goals. It is about people and not to code. This took me a while to get into my own head. Once I did I thought about how leadership -- -- he basically said your work is fine but how does that impact people? I thought what does this evening? I checked the box and delivered the creature and met my commitment. Why does law basically. 
>> As I kept focusing on the code and during everything else I started to stagnate a little bit. I made up this case is in my head. The review system is focus or the people who are yelling the loudest are the ones getting leadership positions. Eventually I finally came around and realize that the most valuable resource of an organization is not the code, it is the people. If you have people in the organization who can positively influence a large group of people, those of the most valuable assets in the organization. It is about how and not just what. Think back to the best leaders you've encountered in your own lives. I bet it was not just the output or the code that they use, but how they did it and what it was like to interact with them. If you asked them a question and they impatiently tell you what to do like a parent telling a child what to do or did they sit down with you and meant for you so that their knowledge from some of the organization, do they celebrate wins and do they push for improvement throughout the organization? These are often called [ Indiscernible - low volume ] and not really related to anything technical. I have definitely [ Indiscernible - low volume ] soft skills in the past that you may have as well, but I think it is the combination of soft skills along with technical skills that really makes effective leadership. 
>> We have 