 Please stand by for realtime captions. 
>> Please stand by for realtime captions.  
>> Good morning. How are we all doing? Real click you will notice there is a piece of paper on your chair. It does not mean it was reserved for someone else. The paper will be used in the keynote. How was the party last night? Who went out to the parties? Maybe they are not here. How was karaoke? Okay. How many people showed up to karaoke? 50? I hear the place is pretty cool. It was remarkable? Who all went to the [ Indiscernible - low volume ] party? It was good, right-click very nice to hear all of that. We will be sending out a survey as mentioned yesterday. We have a survey and it is going to go out. We love your feedback so that will go out sometime this morning. We love to hear your feedback on the conference and what we can do better. Also, T-shirts. I have seen many people ask about T-shirts. It happens today, I believe anytime today but it may be at lunch. It is lunch. You can exchange or by T-shirts and we don't have to worry about all these extra T-shirts so everybody wins. We will get to our trivia now. 
>> The Biltmore Hotel was established in 1923. It is currently 95 years old and has been in constant operation since it was built. It's style has not changed markedly which I think all of us can say that sounds about right. Apparently the hallways and the bathrooms have been refreshed and modernized a bit which is good. Thank you for that. The style essentially has remain the same. This style is unique and is inspired by Italian and -- I have not seen place quite like this so that is your trivia for the morning. 
>> Without further ado we will have Jessie Shternshus come up and she will be our keynote speaker this morning . 
>> [ Applause ] 
>> Hello, everyone. How is everybody doing quite -- doing? Thank you for having me. I love being part of the Ruby community so I am excited to be here with you today. Today we are going to talk about  on learning and the challenge of change. Hopefully you have had your coffee because I am going to break your brain a little bit. We are going to do an exercise together. It looks like this. Can everybody see that? We are going to look up at the top left-hand corner and look at where that word is placed and we will save the correct directional word of where that word is placed. What does that say? Up, correct. We are going to be together going across. We are going to read all the way through and if you stumble high-five yourself or your partner, it is all good. It is just a game. We will start at the beginning on the count of three and what word should that would be? Up. 
>> Up, down, up, left, right, up, down, [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> Some of you have had some good coffee because that was pretty phenomenal. Very good. How many of you messed up a but left it to the louder voices to pick up where you left off? Teamwork. Good job, everyone. 
>> Our environment where we live and work allows us to unlearn -- 
>> I am the owner of the improv affect and I started my company 11 years ago already. I help people worldwide  with communication, collaboration and creative problem-solving. I actually had a lot of my start of my career in the Ruby community.  One of my first jobs was working in Jacksonville part of where I am from and that is where I got introduced into the Ruby community  and loved it. It was a warm feeling and pushing the envelope and I felt like these are my people, I like these people. I have had a really long unlearning journey in general in terms of my work history. I was a  TV set or when I was little. I have my own kids so maybe I am still a babysitter. After that I even worked at Disney. I was a costume character there. When you are in a fuzzy thing with slits for eyes and you have no peripheral vision and have parts for hands and they expect you to sign things. That's cute. I unlearning that as well. I was a teacher for several years and then started my company and that is where I am today.  It is a long unlearning journey, but it has been a lot of fun. 
>> This summer I had the opportunity to go to  agile Australia. I was nervous to be so far away from my family but I tried to embrace in the present where I was. I had a couple of friends from the states who were there with me and that night we took and we were -- to the dinner. As I was getting in the car we are all piling in and there were four of us so someone had to sit up front. My friend Sarah goes to the door and opens the door and the driver is like [ Indiscernible - low volume ] she slams the door back and was like sorry. He said did you want to drive and she said no. Clearly we had not unlearned anything. She almost sat on the driver, he thought he was being held up , it was not cute at all. We made another terrible American impression overseas. Good job, you're welcome. 
>> This is a way of life. It is constant. We are constantly having to shift and make room for something new. What is unlearning quite when we learn, we add new skills or knowledge to what we already know.  When we unlearn we step outside of our mental model in order to discard something that no one makes sense  to make room for that something new. I like to pick up in it like this. Maybe all along things have been working, but at some point you feel like you are shoving that square peg into the round hole you say this work yesterday and this morning and now it is broken. You have to look for something else. In my mind I picture it like you then need to discard that and find something new. There are three levels of unlearning. It happens on an individual level, on a team or group level, and it also happens at the organizational level.  There are two types of unlearning situations. Those  two types are one where know habits are formed at all and the other is where habits are formed. 
>> For instance, if you gave me a book about rocket science I might learn something that I would have a very hard time letting go of that. However, if you told me not to put on my seatbelt anymore, even though I'm a child of the 80s where we did a lot of things that are really strange like it turned out parents were like you don't need a car seat, just buckle up and hope you live. I buckled up at least, thanks mom and dad. I do that without thinking. 
>> Last year we had a hurricane in Florida where I am from and we were all huddled in the hallway and we lost electricity and things like that. I remember going through to get stuff around the house and I kept flipping the switch. I had the knowledge that we have lost our electricity, but the habit one. I was constantly flipping things on and by the time I did that we had electricity already because we were on the same grid as the fire station. We were winners in this situation. It worked out well. 
>> How many of you heard the saying it is just like riding a bike? Have you heard that saying? I want to show you this video about writing a bike, but maybe not when you have ever ridden before. 
>> [ Video playing ]  
>>  I did something. I did something that damaged my mind. It happened on the streets of Amsterdam and I got really scared, honestly. I cannot ride a bike you can anymore. Before I show you the video of what happened I need to take the back story. What many controlled I learned how to ride a bike when I was really young. [ Indiscernible - low volume ] I was really proud of it. Everything changed when my friend Barney called me 25 years later. Where I work the welders are geniuses and like to lay jokes on the engineers. He had a challenge for me. He built a special bicycle and he wanted me to try to write it. The only change one thing. When he turned the health of our to the left the wheel goes to the right. When you turn right the wheel goes left. I thought it would be easy so I jumped on the bike [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> Is first attempt at writing the bicycle. There's attempt at writing a bicycle. 
>> I couldn't do it. You can see that I am laughing but I'm really frustrated. At this moment I had a deep revelation. My thinking was in a rut. This bike revealed a very deep truth to me. I have the knowledge of how to operate the bike but I could not have the understanding. Therefore knowledge is not understanding. I know what you're probably saying. I'm probably an uncoordinated engineer -- it is just that complicated. Think about it, leaving her whole body [ Indiscernible - low volume ] every single force is part of this algorithm. It can change anyone part which affects the entire control system. I do not make definitive statements that often but I'm telling you now you cannot ride this bicycle. You might think you can, but you can't. I know this because I am also asked to speak at universities and conferences and I take the bicycle with me. It is always the same. People think they will try to trick or power through it. It does not work. Your brain cannot handle this. For instance, I offered him $200 just to ride this bicycle [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. Everybody thought he could do it. [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> Once you have a rigid way of thinking in your head sometimes you cannot change that, even if you want to. 
>> [ Indiscernible - low volume ] 
>> Here is what I did. It was a personal challenge. I stayed in the driveway and practice for five minutes every day. My neighbors made fun of. I have a lot of racks, but after eight months, this happened. One day I could not ride the bike and the next day I could. It was like I could feel a pathway in my brain now unlocked. It was weird. It was like a trail in my brain but [ Indiscernible - low volume ] my brain would easily lose that path and jump back onto the old road it was familiar with. Any distraction at all with through my brain back to the old control algorithm but at least I could write it. My son is the closest person to me genetically and has been riding a bike for three years, that is over half his life. I wanted to know how long it would take him to write a backwards bike. I told him if he learned how to write it he could go with me to Australia and meet a real astronaut. Are you going to give up next 
>> No. 
>> It sounds like a babysitter when I was growing up. Why do we think the child, his son who he was treating so nicely was able to figure out how to ride his bike in three weeks? Why is that? Yes. It is easier for him to unlearn. When we are children, we have not necessarily been told what is right or wrong so we  don't know to stay in one line. We can kind of experiment. We are naturally more curious. We are constantly asking why. All of those things lead us to being better at letting go of things. We are like a sponge of knowledge, we don't have one way telling us right or wrong. 
>> When I was researching and coming up with things I wanted to share in the talk it was really interesting the things that Einstein is most famous for and are the most profound actually happen very early in his career. Even though he became equally knowledgeable, it still did not mean that the things he came up with for the most profound. I thought this was interesting. Yesterday was a really wonderful keynote and she talked about newbies and what they go through and what it's like to be there and how there is a place for them. It is true. I think that every newbie, think of them almost like the child picks up something really fast because I have not done it before they are ringing a perspective that is extremely valuable. We should not second-guess that. The perspective is really, really important. 
>> I often have people say to me I want to be a speaker but I am not an expert yet. I have nothing to share. That is not true. You actually have really interesting things to see other people may not have talked about because we have not been for you have been for a long time. 
>> When I had students in improv I typically would have to make different types of students would come. Summer students who had done improv before in other troops and have been performers before and I would have brand-new people. What I would find out is as we are forming a new team, just like you may form a team at work for you tend to let go of your old ways and you have a new language that you worked with. You have a new way of doing things with everyone. The people who were new to improv had a much easier time in their curve of learning and it was much shorter the ones who have done improv before because they had different habits that our team needed to be stellar and perform. 
>> I love this quote. In the beginner's mind there are many possibilities and in the experts mind there are few. This is about, again, being told over and over again there is one way or there is only this way that you can do something and we have to figure out how to be more experience. I would like to play a little game. Here is how it goes. You are going to turn to the person next to you and we are going to play a game called space numbers. How it work is the first person is going to draw numbers in space. Then you are going to go to 10. You are not going to say the numbers. Person number two is going to marry you. They are going to be doing your numbers mirrored. You are going to see a mirror going on together. As soon as you get to 10 I would like for you to switch so that people get a chance to be tortured. If you will and you don't have to really say anything. Give it a shot. 
>> Okay. Is everybody finished? Okay. How many of you want to play space numbers in the hallway after this? 
>> [ Laughter ] how many of you felt like you did a perfect? How many of you had a hard time doing the number four records? Was it all downhill from there? In all seriousness, this is a game about empathy. What does it feel like for somebody to have to do something different and replace it with something they have not done before? Take it away and physically in the space do it differently? Think about how hard it is to draw the number four backwards and think about the empathy you need when somebody new is coming into a team or you are trying to lead a change to do a process or project in a different way. Remember what it was like to have to do this backwards and have some patience with herself and with each other. 
>> What is happening in your brain when you are unlearning?  As we are learning we are forming these neural pathways in the part of our brain called the basal going legally basal ganglia. We're doing this over and over and forming a path. I like to think of it is a big field. With our brain is a big field and I'm walking in the grass probably from either rest is up to hear but if you are taller it is more realistically here. I'm going from point A to point B and back to point A. I am walking through the grass and going back and forth. What is happening to the grass as I keep doing the same thing over and over again? What happens to the grass? It is pushed down. All of a sudden I'm like you want me to do this thing? Okay. I'm going through the grass this way. Has the grass grown back yet over here? For a long time there is still a nice pass in the field. This is what is happening in your brain. It does not happen overnight that you are like goodbye learning. I'm going to unlearn  and go this way. There is still a very clear path. 
>> The unlearning curve is long but necessary. We don't want to end up like these guys.  They loved racing for a long time. Every day they got out in the turtle thought he was going to lose and he one. They were paying attention to things going on around them. We don't want to be those roadkill people animals. We don't want to be with them. Look up and notice there is a moving truck. Notice what is going on around you and don't be so hyper focused on something that you miss the change going on around you. 
>> I want to get personal for a second. A couple of years ago I was asked to work with some of the students at the for the school for the deaf and client . -- She recommended me to them as part of the Ruby community. They called me and said we would like for you to work with our visually impaired students teaching them  using improv and other methods to help them get ready for work, for interviewing for a job, for being on the job the first day. It made me very nervous, to be honest. One, I thought there is no way this would work. I thought that improv really had to be done with site. I didn't think you would be able to do it and do it well if you cannot see, because so much of it is about eye contact and reading body language. It is that I was stuck. I think the bigger problem is that I was super scared to work with an entire population of visually impaired students because I had not done it before. I was ignorant, I wasn't really sure what I say something offensive and I did not want to do that. This inner critic kept saying all the reasons why this wasn't going to work. It almost prevented me from doing it. Luckily, and I don't know why, but I decided maybe this is exactly what you should do. Maybe this is interesting that you fear should be. 
>> I started to take apart what I have learned and said if I need to teach them improv and the students don't have sites, how can I do that? I started to create a curriculum that did not rely on sight. It turned out to be one of the best job I ever had. We worked with them for multiple years and I said other teachers of mine to work with them . Thank goodness I did not run away from that fear of something that I thought would it work. 
>> Let's take a self-awareness healthy and examine our own beliefs. I want you to ask yourself these questions, please. Do I need to think, behave or do things in a new way? Is their previous learning that is preventing me from taking, behaving or doing things in new ways? Like working at the Florida school for the deaf and lines? Is what I am trying to learn  threat or challenge to my identity or how I see myself or how I see the world? What trying harder give me the results I'm looking for or my it create more entrenchment? 
>> The other day I was reading all of Alan Cooper's tweets that were just unbelievable. I think that he saved them which was just incredible. This one caught my attention. There is no mind harder to change the one that has been hugely rewarded for not changing. You need to think about that. If this old way has worked for you and you keep being rewarded for it, it is really hard to get it yourself there is a reason why you need to unlearn and change.  Unlearning is all around us. It is in everything that we do. 
>>  How many of you are familiar with this@? -- This sign? What have we been taught about that? How do we know? The dress. The Cape. My friend Tonya who is an amazing person in speaker, she worked for Obama and was asked to go out into the world and find something that people see all the time that maybe they don't necessarily think about questioning and get us to see it differently. The old tale goes that she was walking around and she sees a bathroom sign. She sees and says what if that was never addressed, what if it was the Cape? It is a brilliant way of thinking that we take things for granted? What if it was there the whole time but we never questioned it. She started a really cool women's movement around this. I challenge you the next time you have to use the facilities to see if you can't un-see it. She did a really good job of getting that to stick with us. 
>> Let's look at this one and you tell me. I'm going to go to. What about this? Any ideas what you think this might be the side attack of the vending machine? What else could it be? Rock climbing. A very rectangular rock. What else could it be? Dancing with it. We will not name what it is that we know that you are dancing with the. This side of went wrong? Totally. Lowering the ramp by hand. We are going to go ahead and lowered the ramp really quick before you go across the bridge. That is why it takes so long when the bridge comes down. Any other things it could be? Yes. I find myself in a situation all the time. Opening the door poorly. Any other ideas? He is struggling with the bookcases. One more. Giant man tipping over skyscraper. 
>> What about this one. What do be? [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. They can. Three bacon getting ready to run free. What else could it be? Yields. Doing what? What are they doing? Synchronized swimming, Doug. That one was not in my blind spot. I have seen a lot of that in my childhood. Line dancing. Anything else? A snake talking. How is it going? Fancy seeing you here. Anything else? Hot pizza. Let's hope we see this assignment later today. We will all see it differently even though we have never seen it before. 
>> The point is it is easy to name things when you have never put them in context. When you have never seen it before, there is nothing to let go of so it is easier to get creative and think about all the possibilities. When it is the bathroom sign you have seen forever, it is harder to unlearn that and make room for  the Cape. 
>> What are unlearning  organizations? An organization that cannot unlearn will never become a learning organization. Often times when I'm working in companies we are getting people that are paralyzed. Maybe they are going  from waterfall to agile or learning a new programming language or learning to work in a very different way and they wonder why people cannot move forward. It is because they are skipping a huge step. They are ignoring that they need to unlearn before they can be forward.  
>> Transformation is not a transactional activity. It is ongoing and it changes over time from our friend Dan. When I get calls on the improv effects and they say we are having a lot of problems with our entire organization and everybody is not getting along and nobody will talk to each other, we cannot retain our people and we have an off-site in two hours, can you help us with that? I am like no. I cannot make miracles happen. I can get you started but it takes practice. That transformation definitely cannot happen in an off-site in two hours. Good luck to you. Mental models eventually become the company values. When you are in a startup and you are in that 8 to 15 or 25 people, the mental models of the founders start to become the culture and the values. At some point it can blow up in your face that you have not made it and it the longer works. You need to unpack what those things are, one of his behaviors, how do we do things, will it still work were not? They are equally ingrained in everybody who has come into the business and as you grow that is more challenging, more and more challenging as each person comes in. 
>> Change is hard because you are constantly playing this game of tug-of-war. You have this is how I do it on the side and try something new. It does not go anywhere when everybody is feeling like that. What about the company's? These are companies that were great in their heyday and now there is snow Jeffrey giraffe. That is upsetting. I actually heard that they are selling them at Walgreens. I don't know how only Jeffrey made it but none of the other toys. These are companies that were doing really great things in them they were like the tortoise and the hare. They did not look up. They did it change fast enough or unlearn fast enough so they are the longer with us.  
>> What are some examples of unlearning at work ?  What are things that you may have to unlearn at work  what are things you may let go of? Anybody get a new laptop or the keyboard is slightly different than it was before? Any others you can think of? Language. Exactly. Absolutely. Yes. If you are bilingual I am talking a little bit of this and a little bit of that and you have to stop and say which language in my using when? How can we unlearn -- the dynamics of leadership in our company and think about maybe is there another way we could do this that would work better? Maybe it served as when we were a much smaller company but now that we are bigger we need to let go of fact and understand that it does not work that way, maybe form new teams or different leadership team or have a flat organization. We don't want to do this, when I was your age and they are exactly the same way. Don't inspire to be grandpa caveman. 
>> How to make things happen? Here is an acronym for you. Here is how we can help our team make changes. [ Indiscernible - low volume ] hear what they have to say and by hearing, don't just hear them but actually take it in and really hear them. Identify the value to change. What is in it for them? Find ways to break down barriers and then train them with experiential methods day by day [ Indiscernible - low volume ] in order to learn something new. 
>> When we tried to surface of substance which is the first step, think about whether when you are told that you had to do something if you are very motivated by that were what if it is different and you want to do something? If you are leading a team and you have to do these kinds of changes, really think about what is in it for them. Why would they want to change and not because you said so, but what would make them motivated to get up every morning and go in the direction of the vision that you have? It is not about what you want, it is about what they want. 
>> Unlearning is hard and empathy is required. Go back and think about writing that four backwards. It is funny, but it is hard. Think about it. Think about what it was like on your first day when you walk around and hear a bunch of acronym  you think what is the? If I was walking around and I heard MRI I do not think I would related to the Ruby community I would wonder if I needed to get scanned or something. Often times  we may come from a different industry and become a developer. We have named these acronym something completely different so we are thinking about it and we are having a completely different conversation than the other person. Remember what that is like to make sure people understand. I know at this conference in particular, we have been told to make sure we make a list of these things and tell everybody what they mean so that people don't have to feel silly for asking. They can go to that and look it up so that they feel included in the conversation. 
>> So you have a piece of paper and if you will I would like for you to write one thing you are struggling unlearning. Can be personally or at work and then you are going to write it down as legibly as you can and I would like for you to make a paper airplane  but don't throw it. Try your hardest. Take a minute into that, please. 
>> -- Take a minute and do that, please. 
>> If you want to make it a different way, go for it. If you see that someone does not have a pen too over. What is something you need to unlearn either personally or at work ? 
>> Don't feel bad if your claim does not apply. Mine usually goes straight to the floor. I will give you 20 seconds and we're going to stand up and I will count down and we will throw airplanes at each other. It ready. You have about 15 more seconds. If you will and if you are on this side you are going to aim and you all are going to face this way but don't throw it yet. Don't get ahead of yourself. Get up the best that you can and look at the other side of the room   here is what we're going to do. I'm going to count to three and if you have an airplane the lands close to you you are going to read it and we will read what other people wrote. Maybe you will read something that you can relate to. Once you pick up your airplane -- sit down and I will call on people. 
>> Okay. Ahead and read those. I have one here it's someone doesn't have one. Open your airplane the has landed in your lab and we have a couple of people with microphones and if somebody could stand up and read one there you go. Right there. You can read the next if you want. 
>> [ Indiscernible - low volume ] and movement muscle memory. 
>> Mice. -- Nice. 
>> Going it alone. 
>> [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> Amen to that. 
>> Being lazy. Yes. Nice. 
>> Apologizing for all of my mistakes because everybody makes them. 
>> [ Applause ] unlearn sleep.  Okay. There are doctors for that. Anybody else? 
>> I need to unlearn idea that my self-worth  depends upon my income. 
>>, -- [ Applause ] needing to say and fix all of the things. Yes. 
>> How to delegate rather than exert control. 
>> Another good one. I cannot see. 
>> The one I have is finding excuses. 
>> Unlearn  finding excuses. 
>> [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> Controller before action. 
>> Believe that people can -- can't change. 
>> That I don't belong in this industry. 
>> [ Applause ] 
>> I think we are going to -- thank you for sharing. I thought those were really good. Hopefully you know you are among friends here and you may have heard something you did not write down what you can relate to. You may have heard something that you did write down and remember this is a great community of people who are here to help. We have lots of resources to do that and lots of people struggle with things that they may not feel comfortable telling. Asked how people are doing it ask what you can do to help. What are the rules for getting ahead? First we need to figure out how to change this habit. We also need to figure out how to change those mindsets. How can we let go of that mindset that I don't belong here? We need to bring in an outsider perspective. 
>> Last year I was working for a big food company in their innovation lab and we were spending a couple of days trying to solve the problem of food waste. -- We tried all of the different places where food gets wasted and how can we make it better? Were coming up with all of these ideas and I was walking back to the hotel. Typically when I'm out of town I call my family, my daughter was 10 at the time she answered the phone and said what are you doing? I said I was working, working on solving the problem of food waste. She said what is that? I said think about Thanksgiving. You have all of this food in a lot of time allotted to get thrown out and it could be used for something else or maybe we don't need to have as much of that food. She said you spent all week working on food waste? Why? That is not hard. I said really? She said take it taste like chocolate. And I thought, where were you when I needed to? 
>> She thinks mommy is -- solving a problem of food waste just make it taste like chocolate in it would not get wasted. 
>> I share this with people in innovation lab and although they do not turn their chicken nuggets into chocolate which is upsetting and I'm still trying to fight for that idea, they took something away from it which was the child's perspective. At this company they have an internship program where kids in junior high during the summer get to learn different things about their business. What is happening now is the junior high students now get to go to the innovation lab and solve real problems because they saw that there was actually something really important about that point of view that they were not capturing within their own team. 
>> We need curiosity, transportation and play. -- Experimentation or play. There is something called [ Indiscernible - low volume ] where you can take a piece of paper and you think about one place or problem. If you were to think about the idea of a restaurant and you wanted to think about how you can make restaurants different you would write down all of the attributes on one side of a restaurant. The restaurant has chairs, a restaurant have tables, food, menus, servers. You write those all down. On the other side of the paper across from the attribute to change one thing. One of the restaurant did not have tables? What would the restaurant be like? What you are doing is questioning. You are not changing everything, but even that one little bit of unlearning, the one escape thinking challenge can change the way  that we think about the way and things we do. It is a simple thing. You can start with something that is real world but not in your own. Go in goes into an abyss of problems and work from that into an actual work problem. This is a really great's us to try. 
>> You can conduct unlearning really is. How many of you have feedback 360 or do some sort of  review with your company? How many of you have done unlearning reviews?  Nobody. What if when you meet with your peers, management, team, leaders, you talk about what did you unlearn in the past few months? What is something you let go of the made room for something new? What if you flipped that question or added to it and had  the unlearning review? Would be used in product ? It seems -- because you are using your whole body to learn it sticks with you a whole lot longer. 
>> How about practicing it every day? You don't need to do an off-site every single day, but just two minutes or five minutes here and there for you are doing a little bit of unlearning and eventually you will let go of the thing that needs to change.  
>> If you like the game this is a book that I wrote. Every chapter is a different type of game you can use with your team and experiments with fun things. 
>> Also, we target doing workshops. [ Indiscernible - low volume ] which is a great Ruby company out of Chicago started this thing called the shop which is about getting people to get out of there  regular environment unplugged, be away, let go and unlearn in this beautiful environment and connect with each other and with themselves while walking . 
>> What are you going to unlearn first?  It is not the strongest of the species that survive or the most intelligent. It is the one that is most adaptable to change. [ Indiscernible - low volume ] don't forget to unlearn. Thank you. 
>>  [ Applause ] 
>> We are on the final day. If you could, by the way, if you could take your paper airplanes to the recycle bin near the water coolers and put them there. That would be awesome. Have a great day. 
>> [ Captioner standing by ] 
>> Hello, everyone. Thank you for [ Indiscernible - low volume ] called know title required, how leadership can come from anywhere. Why do we want to be a leader? I will let the question settle in for a few seconds. Why do we want to be leaders? Money, right? Leaders get stuff done and people who get stuff done this week on beds of money. -- Aside from money they may want to be leaders because leaders have outside influences and notoriety in their profession. They give speeches, they influence lots of people and they have a huge long list of accomplishments. 
>> As you all may know there have been countless studies and papers done to try to figure out what qualities these people have in regular people like you and me can use these qualities. Statistically we're not going to be the next Bill Gates. Yes, we are still drawn to these people and we want to be more like these types of people. 
>> I have told you basically money and thing. That sounds so shallow and boring and obvious, right? I hope to show you that leadership is not just those two things, and I also hope to shake that leadership is in fact one of the most accessible things. 
>> My name is Jim Liu and I am in  engineer at a payroll management company in San Francisco. I have been in the software industry for almost a decade and I have never had an official leadership sounding title. Rather than try to convince you that I have any leadership credentials or anything like that, I will start by giving you some initial thoughts on what I think leadership is. 
>> First and foremost I think leadership is a personal journey. There is snow such thing as the leadership equation. You cannot plug in the number of people you mentor it and get some leadership score. Likewise, there is nothing that says that leadership is reserved for anyone at any particular stage of your career. Any conversation on leadership has to begin with the understanding that leadership is something really personal. We have our own timelines and goals. It is about people and not to code. This took me a while to get into my own head. Once I did I thought about how leadership -- -- he basically said your work is fine but how does that impact people? I thought what does this evening? I checked the box and delivered the creature and met my commitment. Why does law basically. 
>> As I kept focusing on the code and during everything else I started to stagnate a little bit. I made up this case is in my head. The review system is focus or the people who are yelling the loudest are the ones getting leadership positions. Eventually I finally came around and realize that the most valuable resource of an organization is not the code, it is the people. If you have people in the organization who can positively influence a large group of people, those of the most valuable assets in the organization. It is about how and not just what. Think back to the best leaders you've encountered in your own lives. I bet it was not just the output or the code that they use, but how they did it and what it was like to interact with them. If you asked them a question and they impatiently tell you what to do like a parent telling a child what to do or did they sit down with you and meant for you so that their knowledge from some of the organization, do they celebrate wins and do they push for improvement throughout the organization? These are often called [ Indiscernible - low volume ] and not really related to anything technical. I have definitely [ Indiscernible - low volume ] soft skills in the past that you may have as well, but I think it is the combination of soft skills along with technical skills that really makes effective leadership. 
>> We have some of my initial thoughts on leadership Academy divide and get a definition around this term? It is archly pretty hard because there were so many definitions of leadership out there already. I wanted something a little bit more specific. I came up with this. Leadership is the continuous practice of positive influence. Let's break that down a little bit. I don't think leadership is some static milestones that you reach and that is it, you are done. Leadership is something that continuously evolves as your company evolves and as you evolve. Going back to my earlier point, the most important output of a leader isn't code, it is positive influence for your team in your organization. 
>> Notice how the definition does not imply anything about singularity, title or job function. Because of that, I think leadership can really come from anywhere. 
>> Here is what we're going to talk about today. I will give you a quick overview of my story and the leadership journeys I have had in my career so far. We will go through some of my own observations of leadership and some concrete things you can do to become effective leaders within your organization. Let's start at the beginning. The first job I got out of college was at Microsoft. I was doing quality assurance on the Windows network. I didn't realize it at the time, but that first job was about executing a flywheel which is basically a series of steps that built off of one another and result in higher performance the more and more you do it. This is basically the loop that I was then, identify a problem, fix a problem, prevent similar problems, teach others and repeat that. I think the beginning of any leadership journey is about having the core skills and I don't think you can really stay with this for too long. And Microsoft it was all about problem solving over and over again. During that time I got what I consider to be my first leadership went. At the time we had a thing called think we where employees from across the company can submit papers to the executive team and executive team with me those papers [ Indiscernible - low volume ] something larger companies to. Does anybody know or remember what Microsoft [ Indiscernible - low volume ] is? This was the iPod competitor at the time. It did not do so well, unfortunately, but I wrote a paper on it. Bill Gates did not end up reading it. Another executive did. I thought am done with it but my manager noticed and I got my first promotion that year. 
>> At the time I am pretty sure I was only excited about the promotion, but looking back that was the first time I have done something impactful, the matter how small, outside of my own journey. 
>> After that I went back to school to get a masters in computer science. Even in the academic setting I got some good lessons. 
>> Show of hands, how many of you have used this phrase in any profession? You could have said or thought it. Most of us. I have a neat story on the screens. There was a startup weekend event meaning people from the community will come together and we pitch different ideas and form teams to try to come up with a viable [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. I pitched an idea that people thought it was cool and even though we did not come up with a viable business plan it was so really good. During that event somebody come to me and said you are doing a pretty good job with the team, but I think you should stop saying my idea all the time. We know it was your idea and you are probably proud of it, but we are all on the team now and we all now have a say in this idea and how it needs to evolve. 
>> That was a great piece of feedback and an even greater lesson on leadership. Leaders often come up with great ideas but the best leaders are the one who knows that once the idea is out there it becomes everyone's. They know that they need to step back and let the idea of all on its own. 
>> Fast-forward after graduation to a few jobs in services go and I think the biggest difference between that first job and today, even be on the technical is having a stronger sense of where I am in my own career and what leadership is all about. 
>> There have been some good things that have happened. In case you think I am completely -- for various important projects and I had the chance to go to Denver for three months and finally I felt comfortable enough to give this talk.. A big preview of everything. 
>> Some of my own observations on leadership. A lot of them are formed by my own experiences, but hopefully these are transferable to you and more importantly the observation it made me realize these constraints I had in my head about leadership are not really constraints. 
>> I will start with title right off the bat. There's an interesting intersection of title and rolls and job function and they are also related to one another. Think about what title is. The only thing a title really does is it tells you your functional role that you have in a company you are a program manager or finance. As soon as you add words like software manager it is easy for people to equate that with [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. There's some dynamics were just we may want to advertise [ Indiscernible - low volume ] but [ Indiscernible - low volume ] internally within your own company. We are all cognitively pretty lazy most of the time so if we see a piece of email or any sort of communication is as a senior on it it would be easy to [ Indiscernible - low volume ] at that point. In the best case we can overcome that and give people new ideas but it is not always that easy. It is easy to be subconsciously influenced by the senior title and give more weight to the ideas. 
>> If you're one of those people who are tightly wedded to this idea of title that is not a bad thing to ask yourself to keep in mind this question of what do you really want that title to represent? This with me a little bit of time to understand, but the incidence and values of the organization really and the type of leadership. I used to think that the wild, were opinionated person, authoritative person would always become a leader. If you the values and incidence of the organization I highly doubt you would say something -- and then you are a leader. These frameworks were created by humans and humans are imperfect and they probably in the absence of values like Corporation and mentorship it is very likely that style of leadership will bubble up to the top. What does that mean for you? 
>> If you are a person who is already loud and authoritative and perhaps a leader, maybe there is little incentive for you to change because it is already working somewhat for you. I think it is fairly clear that there are lots of different leadership styles and I think this is a great opportunity for different people across the country to work together in an inclusive setting of values and different types of leadership. 
>> This is an ideal [ Indiscernible - low volume ] I use will really progress if there is progress to the point that it is only [ Indiscernible - low volume ] there are a lot of different steps along the way. To make this happen to me. I was working on the team and I was doing the work and all of a sudden a switch flipped and my head and I [ Indiscernible - low volume ] how everything worked into end. At the same time I want to delete became a subject matter expert in that area. The reason to expect that what happened, but looking back I think it was really realizing that day-to-day work is what we will experience most of the time which is why they call it day-to-day work. If that is the type of work that gets us ready to take the next step up in this process. 
>> If you are noticing a lack of progress that does not necessarily mean you could be passive about leadership. Even the best managers cannot be perfect at all times. We as individuals have to advocate for ourselves as much as possible. If you have done good work that does not mean there is someone who gets you, most of us just focus on our own stuff and that is the truth. We generally just do not notice. If you have done some good work, if there is some measurable impact around it be super direct and call it out. Chances are people will acknowledge her efforts and more than likely they will try to find what best practices you use and try to bring those best practices to their own team. Delight herself to get chapters of this yourself like someone will notice my good work. It sometimes can happen, but often times it doesn't. Not for any malicious reason. The best leaders are also the best advocate. 
>> Finally, observations around [ Indiscernible - low volume ] we all have us in of doing Monday code cleanup or [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. We are doing any sort of work that feels like motion. A typing motion shows up on the screen but it does not have a meaningful impact. The best leaders I have noticed always seem to have [ Indiscernible - low volume ] of what the best and most impactful work of doing at any given time. They have never seen [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. A lot of this is context to remain dependent so busy work in one domain may be [ Indiscernible - low volume ] in another domain. What I noticed was that this often meant to say [ Indiscernible - low volume ] very often. It is a really awkward feeling to say no. I think a lot of us want to do good work but saying no is actually a really hard to do. The output that you want to strive for is quality output and not some arbitrary number of things you have done. That is not what we're going for. While these observations are daunting or super obvious, I think there is a lot we can to write now to become more effective leaders in our own organizations. 
>> I hope that each one of these things can be continuously practiced and results in a positive influence and are available to anyone at any location whether you are [ Indiscernible - low volume ], in the experience level or title. That charismatic leader that I applied earlier is one who talks his way out of anything and aspires to treat. That is a great definition of a leader but I think the most underrated skill of the leader is listening. What is listening? [ Indiscernible - low volume ] viewpoints from different people or written things. It also gives you a chance to leave the room in the situation. In a meeting, for example by an employee who never seems to limit if you call the person ask what they think it has tremendous -- it shows that they are present and that this person exists into the summer have a good idea also. To follow what I call the Murphy's Law of talking if you feel you have been talking too much you have definitely been talking too much. Lots of effective techniques for starting to get to a culture of listening and not just talking. Putting your phone away or laptop away in meetings -- then you can do things like for example have someone delegate. You want to start with the person has been at the company for the shortest amount of time versus the person have been there the longest with the most seniority. You can also use brainstorming techniques so rather than getting into a meeting where everyone is talking to have everyone sit down and write down ideas. Then everyone puts all of the post it's on the whiteboard and the group get some ideas together. 
>> Finally one thing has ablative set of ideas and explain that to the entire group. 
>> There are plenty of other things you can think of, but the point is leaders don't just get the best out of people by talking all the time. They find a way to get the best out of everyone in the room. 
>> The best leader strive for continuous improvement and you can do that without an honest assessment of your own skills. Assessing your own skills does not mean preparing yourself -- it means doing it as objectively as possible. This does not have to be scientifically rigorous in any way. For me I just focus on [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. What am I good at and what do I want to improve? Notice I did not say what I'm not good at. It is a small thing that [ Indiscernible - low volume ] I cannot get out of that. If I say this is something I want to improve that is much more dynamic and it makes me feel like I'm not good at this now, but if I work on it I will get better at it. They are really small things but it helps make it in that right frame. 
>> When you do self-assessment the honest would also be kind. For the honesty part, technology gaps. We all have them and even the best leaders and most brilliant people in the world have things they can improve on. At the same time, be kind. If you have a long list of things you want to improve, that is okay. But that's it for a while, understand it, digested and don't try to tackle everything at once. 
>> How I used to do this was I try to remember everything I wanted to remember in my head. You can imagine how well that worked which was not well at all. Pretty soon I started writing things down. That works well for a while and then I noticed I just have a huge, long list of things that they never got followed up on. What is the point of writing everything down here I am listed the help of my manager. For me, at least, I never have luck with the reminded and said please do this [ Indiscernible - low volume ] my manager and I proposed something called the introspective which I thought was pretty neat. Basically dedicating our every basically just talk about longer-term goals. We talked about success and development, action items for me to work on and we would follow up on those action items. This was helpful for me to keep me accountable to say I wrote this down in the sexual at the moment. This is a template that we use and you can see this is pretty straightforward and obvious in things we've Artie talked about in 101 but that is kind of the points. It things around these conversations were already having to keep yourselves accountable. Try this out with your own team. Feedback. One of the most important things about being a leader but also one of the most difficult is what feedback requires. It requires a foundation of trust. A foundation of trust takes a really long time. If you try to ask for the you are going to get really generic feedback. You are doing fine [ Indiscernible - low volume ] if you're trying to as the critical feedback that will end up even worse. You're asking someone to say something negative about you, possibly,. You may be a very rational person and you can handle that but the person you're asking have know idea how you are going to react. They may think you completely flip out if you [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. Often times they will say you are doing fine even though there may be -- it is a really hard problem -- there are a lot of things you can do is not profound or shattering feedback. All things you notice your team doing and get that feedback [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> Once you build that muscle make the that really specific [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. If I ask you how is my communication that will result in more actionable in concrete feedback. For giving feedback there is something called the SBI framework [ Indiscernible - low volume ] and I have a link to it. 
>> Finally, with the back you want to set a good look at my first of many you don't want it to be so spread out that you lose that habit but not so close together that you can [ Indiscernible - low volume ] anything. The worst thing you can do is wait for performance evaluations because you were going to end up with [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. You can barely remember what happened probably a week earlier let alone six months or one year. 
>> Our favorite book as developers, whatever you're working on you should dive deep. As much as we love doing this you will not see this all the time. What does it mean to dive deep? It means to go from the top all the way to the bottom of the problem. What does the top mean? What is the problem you're trying to solve? What is the problem our customer is trying to solve? All the way down to have a get translated into code? As you do this you will probably [ Indiscernible - low volume ] lots of different layers versus the customer requirement had as I get translated to [ Indiscernible - low volume ] and get translated into code? You will probably also noticed a lot of assumptions about the way this works [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. The best leaders keep all goes apart and make them really explicit, preferably in written form that can be shared. When you do that, not only with your team appreciate it but [ Indiscernible - low volume ] all of that tribal knowledge and hidden knowledge and assumptions become really obvious and clear. I think the great thing about software is that if you do software right it really feels like magic. That depends on how deeply to go. If you dive deep enough you can uncover the magic of the software [ Indiscernible - low volume ] is trying to solve. This has a lot of benefits from a knowledge standpoint when you're much more likely to build better systems and tools if you know exactly the implementation or how it will behave under different programs. You will notice design patterns that are shared across different domains and you can take those best practices you have learned already and bring them to your own design. Finally, if you remember the flywheel one of the steps was teaching others. What better way to teach others than to actually know how something works 
>> Here are some examples from my own work. We had a postmortem one time where a [ Indiscernible - low volume ] broke test and development for about half a day. We had a fairly good timeline of what happened and I wanted to construct as I can the timeline as possible within of details [ Indiscernible - low volume ] issues like this in the future. It was a weird interaction between my SQL exclusive table box and the database strategies [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. I am not an expert in any of those, but the point of diving deep is not to be [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. It is the extra work for the source code, documentation [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. Everything it takes to peel back the magic of software. You can do this in non-technical [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. When I first for interview feedback it was very generic and not really useful at all to any meaningful hiring decisions. Note natural formula, I'm not an expert at all but it was figuring out the components we are looking for, what do I need to get better at what I write my evaluations in doing that over and over again [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. I am not perfect now, but I'm definitely better. I found that I can do this in the evaluations I am writing now are obviously better. 
>> A little more I want to emphasize that the technical leadership parts of a project that we made to our super important, but there are a lot of non-technical things that are equally important. The scenario we have in our head is [ Indiscernible - low volume ] and maybe after some deliberations our tech lead is chosen and unfortunately that person is [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. Yes there were knowledge gaps that I had so I probably was not ready for that, but looking back I could have made a lot more impact if I realize that there were a ton of things around shipping a successful software product to be on the technology, really make or break project. A lot of these things are pushed aside -- if someone will take care of all of the dedicated leadership  here are some examples from my own careers, project management. Do you have a launch plan? What are your stakeholder communications and metrics? All of these things are for you to keep in mind that while technical leadership is a huge component there are tons of other ways to have impacts as well. 
>> If you want to know how well you are doing with anything the best way is [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. You may be doing this already for [ Indiscernible - low volume ] metrics but you can actually do this for leadership as well be measuring those. Measuring is part art and part science and it is really easy to over measure things or things [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. I always like to keep in mind two things. One is is what I'm measuring going to tangibly impact an area I'm interested in? If not, why even bother measuring? Secondly, something I'm measuring having clear signals [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. You may have quantitative metrics already or maybe just want to [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. Don't forget how I stopped at an example is let's say you ship something. Quantitatively you succeeded. You should this thing on time, but how did you do it? Did you do this by yourself and left a trail of tech that in Norway or did you have tight feedback in your way or did you have tight feedback with your stakeholders [ Indiscernible - low volume ]? I would argue the second is that in the first will really depend on your particular circumstances. The important thing to keep in mind is that you wish leaders are aware of the trade-offs and if they exist. They will keep in mind not just quantitative metrics but the howl as well. 
>> Here is an example of how you may [ Indiscernible - low volume ] your metrics. Using the objective and keep results framework. This is one way to do it and is a popular way as income. Project objectives you can think of as longer goals that you have the key result are were those comment. This is a sample of some of my own [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. The important thing to note is that the key result are unambiguous. Either I achieved 40% [ Indiscernible - low volume ] where I didn't. There is a middle ground. Either I did I didn't. Even writing these down on paper where I can read them later is a great where I can have some thoughts as they do these actually makes sense as I come back and read them again 
>> -- The results of those actions will warm the next step [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. This is a flywheel that you can use to further your leadership. All the things I talked about it really related to each other and they can use these together for greater practice. 
>> The matter what stage you are at especially if you want to be a people manager of complaint [ Indiscernible - low volume ] is great to get cracking on this as soon as possible. New hires especially are but no. They come in with a beginner's mind so they don't have any of the assumptions you have about your system for processes, [ Indiscernible - low volume ] take this to heart instead of pushing them away [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. There are lots of different types of mentors out there. I like to vinyl with complementary skills which is a fix when it's right and also someone who could be honest with me and not only thing that I want to hear. They're going to ask me all these questions and I will not have time for that. That is not exactly the situation you might want. If you think about what that means to me some I trust you enough that you have that knowledge and also trust that you care enough to potentially answer your question. If that is not the definition of being a leader than I don't know what is. 
>> Last one, take care of your physical and mental health. I think it is great that this thing about the how the starting to be lifted and it is there's we have set example for others and know when it is time to take a step back. For me I could feel that in impacts my workspace and I don't focus on these things. For me a good weekend is enough, but you know yourself best and you know how long you need to refresh. 
>> Focusing on mental and physical health gives you time to prepare [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> I put this last because it is the foundation of everything if you think about it. If we don't have physical and mental health then there is a way we can possibly tackle any of the goals -- there's something too small you can do here there is no better time to start now. 
>> Everything I said sounds pretty good hopefully. There is one limiting factor in with the that will prevent us from reaching our goals. Does anyone know what it is? Yell it out if you know what it is. I will tell you what it is. It is time. Who has time for all that stuff I just talked about? No one has time for that time, our mortal friend in enemy, whatever you call it rears its head again. The best leaders I wouldn't say the necessarily embrace time but they are cognizant of time and the effects it can have. We may have a huge list of things that we may effects it can have. We may have a huge list of things that we may  want to focus on and the best leaders knowbest leaders know  that there will be unforeseen events in your company and unforeseen events in your personal life. [ Indiscernible - low volume ] at some point. 
>> If you think back to one of the first slides I have with leadership being maturity, the best leaders embrace that and realize that it is a marathon to reach her goals and it is not a sprint. 
>> You may think after everything I said that leadership is inaccessible given the constraints in your organization. You may think that you may want to be a leader in an IT capacity picture company has leadership of people management which is not [ Indiscernible - low volume ] at all. You may be a remote employee who has great ideas but somehow all of the interesting technical work gets assigned to people in headquarters. These are really her problems and there are no easy answers. That being said, I think we as employees should hold our organizations accountable for the environment and culture that they said. Managers should not just empower us -- managers should empower us rather than just delegating and should celebrate small wins as well as big win. Vision of the government leadership is a finite resource that has to be allocated to exactly the right people. Organizations should strive for [ Indiscernible - low volume ] have hard conversations about diversity and belonging they should be tackled head-on rather than ignored. Finally, we as employees should insist that leadership isn't something where someone has to win and someone has to lose. Leadership isn't [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. There is a lot we can do as employees but there is a lot of our organizations can do as well to get there. I want you all to keep that in mind. Organizations are there to help us along the way. 
>> I want to wrap up by saying that the opportunity around this topic in particular was a really big surprise to me. There have been so many things said about leadership and what more could I possibly say? This was hard to do this presentation and I said what just right one idea down on a piece of paper. After that it got easier and so I finally reached this presentation. I think leadership is the same way. Don't try to climb that mountain all at once. Just start with one thing. One idea for process improvement, one encouraging word to a colleague, one more hour figuring out why that [ Indiscernible - low volume ] the way it does and go from there. If you start with one you will be a leader. 
>> Thank you, and lead on. 
>> [ Applause ] 
>> I put some resources of favorite books and blog posts and articles about leadership and if you want to contact me the contact information is there as well. I will be up here for any questions that you may have. Thank you. 
>> [ Captioner standing by ] 
>>