 Please stand by for realtime captions. 
>> Please stand by for realtime captions.  
>> Good morning. How are we all doing? Real click you will notice there is a piece of paper on your chair. It does not mean it was reserved for someone else. The paper will be used in the keynote. How was the party last night? Who went out to the parties? Maybe they are not here. How was karaoke? Okay. How many people showed up to karaoke? 50? I hear the place is pretty cool. It was remarkable? Who all went to the [ Indiscernible - low volume ] party? It was good, right-click very nice to hear all of that. We will be sending out a survey as mentioned yesterday. We have a survey and it is going to go out. We love your feedback so that will go out sometime this morning. We love to hear your feedback on the conference and what we can do better. Also, T-shirts. I have seen many people ask about T-shirts. It happens today, I believe anytime today but it may be at lunch. It is lunch. You can exchange or by T-shirts and we don't have to worry about all these extra T-shirts so everybody wins. We will get to our trivia now. 
>> The Biltmore Hotel was established in 1923. It is currently 95 years old and has been in constant operation since it was built. It's style has not changed markedly which I think all of us can say that sounds about right. Apparently the hallways and the bathrooms have been refreshed and modernized a bit which is good. Thank you for that. The style essentially has remain the same. This style is unique and is inspired by Italian and -- I have not seen place quite like this so that is your trivia for the morning. 
>> Without further ado we will have Jessie Shternshus come up and she will be our keynote speaker this morning . 
>> [ Applause ] 
>> Hello, everyone. How is everybody doing quite -- doing? Thank you for having me. I love being part of the Ruby community so I am excited to be here with you today. Today we are going to talk about  on learning and the challenge of change. Hopefully you have had your coffee because I am going to break your brain a little bit. We are going to do an exercise together. It looks like this. Can everybody see that? We are going to look up at the top left-hand corner and look at where that word is placed and we will save the correct directional word of where that word is placed. What does that say? Up, correct. We are going to be together going across. We are going to read all the way through and if you stumble high-five yourself or your partner, it is all good. It is just a game. We will start at the beginning on the count of three and what word should that would be? Up. 
>> Up, down, up, left, right, up, down, [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> Some of you have had some good coffee because that was pretty phenomenal. Very good. How many of you messed up a but left it to the louder voices to pick up where you left off? Teamwork. Good job, everyone. 
>> Our environment where we live and work allows us to unlearn -- 
>> I am the owner of the improv affect and I started my company 11 years ago already. I help people worldwide  with communication, collaboration and creative problem-solving. I actually had a lot of my start of my career in the Ruby community.  One of my first jobs was working in Jacksonville part of where I am from and that is where I got introduced into the Ruby community  and loved it. It was a warm feeling and pushing the envelope and I felt like these are my people, I like these people. I have had a really long unlearning journey in general in terms of my work history. I was a  TV set or when I was little. I have my own kids so maybe I am still a babysitter. After that I even worked at Disney. I was a costume character there. When you are in a fuzzy thing with slits for eyes and you have no peripheral vision and have parts for hands and they expect you to sign things. That's cute. I unlearning that as well. I was a teacher for several years and then started my company and that is where I am today.  It is a long unlearning journey, but it has been a lot of fun. 
>> This summer I had the opportunity to go to  agile Australia. I was nervous to be so far away from my family but I tried to embrace in the present where I was. I had a couple of friends from the states who were there with me and that night we took and we were -- to the dinner. As I was getting in the car we are all piling in and there were four of us so someone had to sit up front. My friend Sarah goes to the door and opens the door and the driver is like [ Indiscernible - low volume ] she slams the door back and was like sorry. He said did you want to drive and she said no. Clearly we had not unlearned anything. She almost sat on the driver, he thought he was being held up , it was not cute at all. We made another terrible American impression overseas. Good job, you're welcome. 
>> This is a way of life. It is constant. We are constantly having to shift and make room for something new. What is unlearning quite when we learn, we add new skills or knowledge to what we already know.  When we unlearn we step outside of our mental model in order to discard something that no one makes sense  to make room for that something new. I like to pick up in it like this. Maybe all along things have been working, but at some point you feel like you are shoving that square peg into the round hole you say this work yesterday and this morning and now it is broken. You have to look for something else. In my mind I picture it like you then need to discard that and find something new. There are three levels of unlearning. It happens on an individual level, on a team or group level, and it also happens at the organizational level.  There are two types of unlearning situations. Those  two types are one where know habits are formed at all and the other is where habits are formed. 
>> For instance, if you gave me a book about rocket science I might learn something that I would have a very hard time letting go of that. However, if you told me not to put on my seatbelt anymore, even though I'm a child of the 80s where we did a lot of things that are really strange like it turned out parents were like you don't need a car seat, just buckle up and hope you live. I buckled up at least, thanks mom and dad. I do that without thinking. 
>> Last year we had a hurricane in Florida where I am from and we were all huddled in the hallway and we lost electricity and things like that. I remember going through to get stuff around the house and I kept flipping the switch. I had the knowledge that we have lost our electricity, but the habit one. I was constantly flipping things on and by the time I did that we had electricity already because we were on the same grid as the fire station. We were winners in this situation. It worked out well. 
>> How many of you heard the saying it is just like riding a bike? Have you heard that saying? I want to show you this video about writing a bike, but maybe not when you have ever ridden before. 
>> [ Video playing ]  
>>  I did something. I did something that damaged my mind. It happened on the streets of Amsterdam and I got really scared, honestly. I cannot ride a bike you can anymore. Before I show you the video of what happened I need to take the back story. What many controlled I learned how to ride a bike when I was really young. [ Indiscernible - low volume ] I was really proud of it. Everything changed when my friend Barney called me 25 years later. Where I work the welders are geniuses and like to lay jokes on the engineers. He had a challenge for me. He built a special bicycle and he wanted me to try to write it. The only change one thing. When he turned the health of our to the left the wheel goes to the right. When you turn right the wheel goes left. I thought it would be easy so I jumped on the bike [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> Is first attempt at writing the bicycle. There's attempt at writing a bicycle. 
>> I couldn't do it. You can see that I am laughing but I'm really frustrated. At this moment I had a deep revelation. My thinking was in a rut. This bike revealed a very deep truth to me. I have the knowledge of how to operate the bike but I could not have the understanding. Therefore knowledge is not understanding. I know what you're probably saying. I'm probably an uncoordinated engineer -- it is just that complicated. Think about it, leaving her whole body [ Indiscernible - low volume ] every single force is part of this algorithm. It can change anyone part which affects the entire control system. I do not make definitive statements that often but I'm telling you now you cannot ride this bicycle. You might think you can, but you can't. I know this because I am also asked to speak at universities and conferences and I take the bicycle with me. It is always the same. People think they will try to trick or power through it. It does not work. Your brain cannot handle this. For instance, I offered him $200 just to ride this bicycle [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. Everybody thought he could do it. [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> Once you have a rigid way of thinking in your head sometimes you cannot change that, even if you want to. 
>> [ Indiscernible - low volume ] 
>> Here is what I did. It was a personal challenge. I stayed in the driveway and practice for five minutes every day. My neighbors made fun of. I have a lot of racks, but after eight months, this happened. One day I could not ride the bike and the next day I could. It was like I could feel a pathway in my brain now unlocked. It was weird. It was like a trail in my brain but [ Indiscernible - low volume ] my brain would easily lose that path and jump back onto the old road it was familiar with. Any distraction at all with through my brain back to the old control algorithm but at least I could write it. My son is the closest person to me genetically and has been riding a bike for three years, that is over half his life. I wanted to know how long it would take him to write a backwards bike. I told him if he learned how to write it he could go with me to Australia and meet a real astronaut. Are you going to give up next 
>> No. 
>> It sounds like a babysitter when I was growing up. Why do we think the child, his son who he was treating so nicely was able to figure out how to ride his bike in three weeks? Why is that? Yes. It is easier for him to unlearn. When we are children, we have not necessarily been told what is right or wrong so we  don't know to stay in one line. We can kind of experiment. We are naturally more curious. We are constantly asking why. All of those things lead us to being better at letting go of things. We are like a sponge of knowledge, we don't have one way telling us right or wrong. 
>> When I was researching and coming up with things I wanted to share in the talk it was really interesting the things that Einstein is most famous for and are the most profound actually happen very early in his career. Even though he became equally knowledgeable, it still did not mean that the things he came up with for the most profound. I thought this was interesting. Yesterday was a really wonderful keynote and she talked about newbies and what they go through and what it's like to be there and how there is a place for them. It is true. I think that every newbie, think of them almost like the child picks up something really fast because I have not done it before they are ringing a perspective that is extremely valuable. We should not second-guess that. The perspective is really, really important. 
>> I often have people say to me I want to be a speaker but I am not an expert yet. I have nothing to share. That is not true. You actually have really interesting things to see other people may not have talked about because we have not been for you have been for a long time. 
>> When I had students in improv I typically would have to make different types of students would come. Summer students who had done improv before in other troops and have been performers before and I would have brand-new people. What I would find out is as we are forming a new team, just like you may form a team at work for you tend to let go of your old ways and you have a new language that you worked with. You have a new way of doing things with everyone. The people who were new to improv had a much easier time in their curve of learning and it was much shorter the ones who have done improv before because they had different habits that our team needed to be stellar and perform. 
>> I love this quote. In the beginner's mind there are many possibilities and in the experts mind there are few. This is about, again, being told over and over again there is one way or there is only this way that you can do something and we have to figure out how to be more experience. I would like to play a little game. Here is how it goes. You are going to turn to the person next to you and we are going to play a game called space numbers. How it work is the first person is going to draw numbers in space. Then you are going to go to 10. You are not going to say the numbers. Person number two is going to marry you. They are going to be doing your numbers mirrored. You are going to see a mirror going on together. As soon as you get to 10 I would like for you to switch so that people get a chance to be tortured. If you will and you don't have to really say anything. Give it a shot. 
>> Okay. Is everybody finished? Okay. How many of you want to play space numbers in the hallway after this? 
>> [ Laughter ] how many of you felt like you did a perfect? How many of you had a hard time doing the number four records? Was it all downhill from there? In all seriousness, this is a game about empathy. What does it feel like for somebody to have to do something different and replace it with something they have not done before? Take it away and physically in the space do it differently? Think about how hard it is to draw the number four backwards and think about the empathy you need when somebody new is coming into a team or you are trying to lead a change to do a process or project in a different way. Remember what it was like to have to do this backwards and have some patience with herself and with each other. 
>> What is happening in your brain when you are unlearning?  As we are learning we are forming these neural pathways in the part of our brain called the basal going legally basal ganglia. We're doing this over and over and forming a path. I like to think of it is a big field. With our brain is a big field and I'm walking in the grass probably from either rest is up to hear but if you are taller it is more realistically here. I'm going from point A to point B and back to point A. I am walking through the grass and going back and forth. What is happening to the grass as I keep doing the same thing over and over again? What happens to the grass? It is pushed down. All of a sudden I'm like you want me to do this thing? Okay. I'm going through the grass this way. Has the grass grown back yet over here? For a long time there is still a nice pass in the field. This is what is happening in your brain. It does not happen overnight that you are like goodbye learning. I'm going to unlearn  and go this way. There is still a very clear path. 
>> The unlearning curve is long but necessary. We don't want to end up like these guys.  They loved racing for a long time. Every day they got out in the turtle thought he was going to lose and he one. They were paying attention to things going on around them. We don't want to be those roadkill people animals. We don't want to be with them. Look up and notice there is a moving truck. Notice what is going on around you and don't be so hyper focused on something that you miss the change going on around you. 
>> I want to get personal for a second. A couple of years ago I was asked to work with some of the students at the for the school for the deaf and client . -- She recommended me to them as part of the Ruby community. They called me and said we would like for you to work with our visually impaired students teaching them  using improv and other methods to help them get ready for work, for interviewing for a job, for being on the job the first day. It made me very nervous, to be honest. One, I thought there is no way this would work. I thought that improv really had to be done with site. I didn't think you would be able to do it and do it well if you cannot see, because so much of it is about eye contact and reading body language. It is that I was stuck. I think the bigger problem is that I was super scared to work with an entire population of visually impaired students because I had not done it before. I was ignorant, I wasn't really sure what I say something offensive and I did not want to do that. This inner critic kept saying all the reasons why this wasn't going to work. It almost prevented me from doing it. Luckily, and I don't know why, but I decided maybe this is exactly what you should do. Maybe this is interesting that you fear should be. 
>> I started to take apart what I have learned and said if I need to teach them improv and the students don't have sites, how can I do that? I started to create a curriculum that did not rely on sight. It turned out to be one of the best job I ever had. We worked with them for multiple years and I said other teachers of mine to work with them . Thank goodness I did not run away from that fear of something that I thought would it work. 
>> Let's take a self-awareness healthy and examine our own beliefs. I want you to ask yourself these questions, please. Do I need to think, behave or do things in a new way? Is their previous learning that is preventing me from taking, behaving or doing things in new ways? Like working at the Florida school for the deaf and lines? Is what I am trying to learn  threat or challenge to my identity or how I see myself or how I see the world? What trying harder give me the results I'm looking for or my it create more entrenchment? 
>> The other day I was reading all of Alan Cooper's tweets that were just unbelievable. I think that he saved them which was just incredible. This one caught my attention. There is no mind harder to change the one that has been hugely rewarded for not changing. You need to think about that. If this old way has worked for you and you keep being rewarded for it, it is really hard to get it yourself there is a reason why you need to unlearn and change.  Unlearning is all around us. It is in everything that we do. 
>>  How many of you are familiar with this@? -- This sign? What have we been taught about that? How do we know? The dress. The Cape. My friend Tonya who is an amazing person in speaker, she worked for Obama and was asked to go out into the world and find something that people see all the time that maybe they don't necessarily think about questioning and get us to see it differently. The old tale goes that she was walking around and she sees a bathroom sign. She sees and says what if that was never addressed, what if it was the Cape? It is a brilliant way of thinking that we take things for granted? What if it was there the whole time but we never questioned it. She started a really cool women's movement around this. I challenge you the next time you have to use the facilities to see if you can't un-see it. She did a really good job of getting that to stick with us. 
>> Let's look at this one and you tell me. I'm going to go to. What about this? Any ideas what you think this might be the side attack of the vending machine? What else could it be? Rock climbing. A very rectangular rock. What else could it be? Dancing with it. We will not name what it is that we know that you are dancing with the. This side of went wrong? Totally. Lowering the ramp by hand. We are going to go ahead and lowered the ramp really quick before you go across the bridge. That is why it takes so long when the bridge comes down. Any other things it could be? Yes. I find myself in a situation all the time. Opening the door poorly. Any other ideas? He is struggling with the bookcases. One more. Giant man tipping over skyscraper. 
>> What about this one. What do be? [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. They can. Three bacon getting ready to run free. What else could it be? Yields. Doing what? What are they doing? Synchronized swimming, Doug. That one was not in my blind spot. I have seen a lot of that in my childhood. Line dancing. Anything else? A snake talking. How is it going? Fancy seeing you here. Anything else? Hot pizza. Let's hope we see this assignment later today. We will all see it differently even though we have never seen it before. 
>> The point is it is easy to name things when you have never put them in context. When you have never seen it before, there is nothing to let go of so it is easier to get creative and think about all the possibilities. When it is the bathroom sign you have seen forever, it is harder to unlearn that and make room for  the Cape. 
>> What are unlearning  organizations? An organization that cannot unlearn will never become a learning organization. Often times when I'm working in companies we are getting people that are paralyzed. Maybe they are going  from waterfall to agile or learning a new programming language or learning to work in a very different way and they wonder why people cannot move forward. It is because they are skipping a huge step. They are ignoring that they need to unlearn before they can be forward.  
>> Transformation is not a transactional activity. It is ongoing and it changes over time from our friend Dan. When I get calls on the improv effects and they say we are having a lot of problems with our entire organization and everybody is not getting along and nobody will talk to each other, we cannot retain our people and we have an off-site in two hours, can you help us with that? I am like no. I cannot make miracles happen. I can get you started but it takes practice. That transformation definitely cannot happen in an off-site in two hours. Good luck to you. Mental models eventually become the company values. When you are in a startup and you are in that 8 to 15 or 25 people, the mental models of the founders start to become the culture and the values. At some point it can blow up in your face that you have not made it and it the longer works. You need to unpack what those things are, one of his behaviors, how do we do things, will it still work were not? They are equally ingrained in everybody who has come into the business and as you grow that is more challenging, more and more challenging as each person comes in. 
>> Change is hard because you are constantly playing this game of tug-of-war. You have this is how I do it on the side and try something new. It does not go anywhere when everybody is feeling like that. What about the company's? These are companies that were great in their heyday and now there is snow Jeffrey giraffe. That is upsetting. I actually heard that they are selling them at Walgreens. I don't know how only Jeffrey made it but none of the other toys. These are companies that were doing really great things in them they were like the tortoise and the hare. They did not look up. They did it change fast enough or unlearn fast enough so they are the longer with us.  
>> What are some examples of unlearning at work ?  What are things that you may have to unlearn at work  what are things you may let go of? Anybody get a new laptop or the keyboard is slightly different than it was before? Any others you can think of? Language. Exactly. Absolutely. Yes. If you are bilingual I am talking a little bit of this and a little bit of that and you have to stop and say which language in my using when? How can we unlearn -- the dynamics of leadership in our company and think about maybe is there another way we could do this that would work better? Maybe it served as when we were a much smaller company but now that we are bigger we need to let go of fact and understand that it does not work that way, maybe form new teams or different leadership team or have a flat organization. We don't want to do this, when I was your age and they are exactly the same way. Don't inspire to be grandpa caveman. 
>> How to make things happen? Here is an acronym for you. Here is how we can help our team make changes. [ Indiscernible - low volume ] hear what they have to say and by hearing, don't just hear them but actually take it in and really hear them. Identify the value to change. What is in it for them? Find ways to break down barriers and then train them with experiential methods day by day [ Indiscernible - low volume ] in order to learn something new. 
>> When we tried to surface of substance which is the first step, think about whether when you are told that you had to do something if you are very motivated by that were what if it is different and you want to do something? If you are leading a team and you have to do these kinds of changes, really think about what is in it for them. Why would they want to change and not because you said so, but what would make them motivated to get up every morning and go in the direction of the vision that you have? It is not about what you want, it is about what they want. 
>> Unlearning is hard and empathy is required. Go back and think about writing that four backwards. It is funny, but it is hard. Think about it. Think about what it was like on your first day when you walk around and hear a bunch of acronym  you think what is the? If I was walking around and I heard MRI I do not think I would related to the Ruby community I would wonder if I needed to get scanned or something. Often times  we may come from a different industry and become a developer. We have named these acronym something completely different so we are thinking about it and we are having a completely different conversation than the other person. Remember what that is like to make sure people understand. I know at this conference in particular, we have been told to make sure we make a list of these things and tell everybody what they mean so that people don't have to feel silly for asking. They can go to that and look it up so that they feel included in the conversation. 
>> So you have a piece of paper and if you will I would like for you to write one thing you are struggling unlearning. Can be personally or at work and then you are going to write it down as legibly as you can and I would like for you to make a paper airplane  but don't throw it. Try your hardest. Take a minute into that, please. 
>> -- Take a minute and do that, please. 
>> If you want to make it a different way, go for it. If you see that someone does not have a pen too over. What is something you need to unlearn either personally or at work ? 
>> Don't feel bad if your claim does not apply. Mine usually goes straight to the floor. I will give you 20 seconds and we're going to stand up and I will count down and we will throw airplanes at each other. It ready. You have about 15 more seconds. If you will and if you are on this side you are going to aim and you all are going to face this way but don't throw it yet. Don't get ahead of yourself. Get up the best that you can and look at the other side of the room   here is what we're going to do. I'm going to count to three and if you have an airplane the lands close to you you are going to read it and we will read what other people wrote. Maybe you will read something that you can relate to. Once you pick up your airplane -- sit down and I will call on people. 
>> Okay. Ahead and read those. I have one here it's someone doesn't have one. Open your airplane the has landed in your lab and we have a couple of people with microphones and if somebody could stand up and read one there you go. Right there. You can read the next if you want. 
>> [ Indiscernible - low volume ] and movement muscle memory. 
>> Mice. -- Nice. 
>> Going it alone. 
>> [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> Amen to that. 
>> Being lazy. Yes. Nice. 
>> Apologizing for all of my mistakes because everybody makes them. 
>> [ Applause ] unlearn sleep.  Okay. There are doctors for that. Anybody else? 
>> I need to unlearn idea that my self-worth  depends upon my income. 
>>, -- [ Applause ] needing to say and fix all of the things. Yes. 
>> How to delegate rather than exert control. 
>> Another good one. I cannot see. 
>> The one I have is finding excuses. 
>> Unlearn  finding excuses. 
>> [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> Controller before action. 
>> Believe that people can -- can't change. 
>> That I don't belong in this industry. 
>> [ Applause ] 
>> I think we are going to -- thank you for sharing. I thought those were really good. Hopefully you know you are among friends here and you may have heard something you did not write down what you can relate to. You may have heard something that you did write down and remember this is a great community of people who are here to help. We have lots of resources to do that and lots of people struggle with things that they may not feel comfortable telling. Asked how people are doing it ask what you can do to help. What are the rules for getting ahead? First we need to figure out how to change this habit. We also need to figure out how to change those mindsets. How can we let go of that mindset that I don't belong here? We need to bring in an outsider perspective. 
>> Last year I was working for a big food company in their innovation lab and we were spending a couple of days trying to solve the problem of food waste. -- We tried all of the different places where food gets wasted and how can we make it better? Were coming up with all of these ideas and I was walking back to the hotel. Typically when I'm out of town I call my family, my daughter was 10 at the time she answered the phone and said what are you doing? I said I was working, working on solving the problem of food waste. She said what is that? I said think about Thanksgiving. You have all of this food in a lot of time allotted to get thrown out and it could be used for something else or maybe we don't need to have as much of that food. She said you spent all week working on food waste? Why? That is not hard. I said really? She said take it taste like chocolate. And I thought, where were you when I needed to? 
>> She thinks mommy is -- solving a problem of food waste just make it taste like chocolate in it would not get wasted. 
>> I share this with people in innovation lab and although they do not turn their chicken nuggets into chocolate which is upsetting and I'm still trying to fight for that idea, they took something away from it which was the child's perspective. At this company they have an internship program where kids in junior high during the summer get to learn different things about their business. What is happening now is the junior high students now get to go to the innovation lab and solve real problems because they saw that there was actually something really important about that point of view that they were not capturing within their own team. 
>> We need curiosity, transportation and play. -- Experimentation or play. There is something called [ Indiscernible - low volume ] where you can take a piece of paper and you think about one place or problem. If you were to think about the idea of a restaurant and you wanted to think about how you can make restaurants different you would write down all of the attributes on one side of a restaurant. The restaurant has chairs, a restaurant have tables, food, menus, servers. You write those all down. On the other side of the paper across from the attribute to change one thing. One of the restaurant did not have tables? What would the restaurant be like? What you are doing is questioning. You are not changing everything, but even that one little bit of unlearning, the one escape thinking challenge can change the way  that we think about the way and things we do. It is a simple thing. You can start with something that is real world but not in your own. Go in goes into an abyss of problems and work from that into an actual work problem. This is a really great's us to try. 
>> You can conduct unlearning really is. How many of you have feedback 360 or do some sort of  review with your company? How many of you have done unlearning reviews?  Nobody. What if when you meet with your peers, management, team, leaders, you talk about what did you unlearn in the past few months? What is something you let go of the made room for something new? What if you flipped that question or added to it and had  the unlearning review? Would be used in product ? It seems -- because you are using your whole body to learn it sticks with you a whole lot longer. 
>> How about practicing it every day? You don't need to do an off-site every single day, but just two minutes or five minutes here and there for you are doing a little bit of unlearning and eventually you will let go of the thing that needs to change.  
>> If you like the game this is a book that I wrote. Every chapter is a different type of game you can use with your team and experiments with fun things. 
>> Also, we target doing workshops. [ Indiscernible - low volume ] which is a great Ruby company out of Chicago started this thing called the shop which is about getting people to get out of there  regular environment unplugged, be away, let go and unlearn in this beautiful environment and connect with each other and with themselves while walking . 
>> What are you going to unlearn first?  It is not the strongest of the species that survive or the most intelligent. It is the one that is most adaptable to change. [ Indiscernible - low volume ] don't forget to unlearn. Thank you. 
>>  [ Applause ] 
>> We are on the final day. If you could, by the way, if you could take your paper airplanes to the recycle bin near the water coolers and put them there. That would be awesome. Have a great day. 
>> [ Captioner standing by ] 
>> Hello, everyone. Thank you for [ Indiscernible - low volume ] called know title required, how leadership can come from anywhere. Why do we want to be a leader? I will let the question settle in for a few seconds. Why do we want to be leaders? Money, right? Leaders get stuff done and people who get stuff done this week on beds of money. -- Aside from money they may want to be leaders because leaders have outside influences and notoriety in their profession. They give speeches, they influence lots of people and they have a huge long list of accomplishments. 
>> As you all may know there have been countless studies and papers done to try to figure out what qualities these people have in regular people like you and me can use these qualities. Statistically we're not going to be the next Bill Gates. Yes, we are still drawn to these people and we want to be more like these types of people. 
>> I have told you basically money and thing. That sounds so shallow and boring and obvious, right? I hope to show you that leadership is not just those two things, and I also hope to shake that leadership is in fact one of the most accessible things. 
>> My name is Jim Liu and I am in  engineer at a payroll management company in San Francisco. I have been in the software industry for almost a decade and I have never had an official leadership sounding title. Rather than try to convince you that I have any leadership credentials or anything like that, I will start by giving you some initial thoughts on what I think leadership is. 
>> First and foremost I think leadership is a personal journey. There is snow such thing as the leadership equation. You cannot plug in the number of people you mentor it and get some leadership score. Likewise, there is nothing that says that leadership is reserved for anyone at any particular stage of your career. Any conversation on leadership has to begin with the understanding that leadership is something really personal. We have our own timelines and goals. It is about people and not to code. This took me a while to get into my own head. Once I did I thought about how leadership -- -- he basically said your work is fine but how does that impact people? I thought what does this evening? I checked the box and delivered the creature and met my commitment. Why does law basically. 
>> As I kept focusing on the code and during everything else I started to stagnate a little bit. I made up this case is in my head. The review system is focus or the people who are yelling the loudest are the ones getting leadership positions. Eventually I finally came around and realize that the most valuable resource of an organization is not the code, it is the people. If you have people in the organization who can positively influence a large group of people, those of the most valuable assets in the organization. It is about how and not just what. Think back to the best leaders you've encountered in your own lives. I bet it was not just the output or the code that they use, but how they did it and what it was like to interact with them. If you asked them a question and they impatiently tell you what to do like a parent telling a child what to do or did they sit down with you and meant for you so that their knowledge from some of the organization, do they celebrate wins and do they push for improvement throughout the organization? These are often called [ Indiscernible - low volume ] and not really related to anything technical. I have definitely [ Indiscernible - low volume ] soft skills in the past that you may have as well, but I think it is the combination of soft skills along with technical skills that really makes effective leadership. 
>> We have some of my initial thoughts on leadership Academy divide and get a definition around this term? It is archly pretty hard because there were so many definitions of leadership out there already. I wanted something a little bit more specific. I came up with this. Leadership is the continuous practice of positive influence. Let's break that down a little bit. I don't think leadership is some static milestones that you reach and that is it, you are done. Leadership is something that continuously evolves as your company evolves and as you evolve. Going back to my earlier point, the most important output of a leader isn't code, it is positive influence for your team in your organization. 
>> Notice how the definition does not imply anything about singularity, title or job function. Because of that, I think leadership can really come from anywhere. 
>> Here is what we're going to talk about today. I will give you a quick overview of my story and the leadership journeys I have had in my career so far. We will go through some of my own observations of leadership and some concrete things you can do to become effective leaders within your organization. Let's start at the beginning. The first job I got out of college was at Microsoft. I was doing quality assurance on the Windows network. I didn't realize it at the time, but that first job was about executing a flywheel which is basically a series of steps that built off of one another and result in higher performance the more and more you do it. This is basically the loop that I was then, identify a problem, fix a problem, prevent similar problems, teach others and repeat that. I think the beginning of any leadership journey is about having the core skills and I don't think you can really stay with this for too long. And Microsoft it was all about problem solving over and over again. During that time I got what I consider to be my first leadership went. At the time we had a thing called think we where employees from across the company can submit papers to the executive team and executive team with me those papers [ Indiscernible - low volume ] something larger companies to. Does anybody know or remember what Microsoft [ Indiscernible - low volume ] is? This was the iPod competitor at the time. It did not do so well, unfortunately, but I wrote a paper on it. Bill Gates did not end up reading it. Another executive did. I thought am done with it but my manager noticed and I got my first promotion that year. 
>> At the time I am pretty sure I was only excited about the promotion, but looking back that was the first time I have done something impactful, the matter how small, outside of my own journey. 
>> After that I went back to school to get a masters in computer science. Even in the academic setting I got some good lessons. 
>> Show of hands, how many of you have used this phrase in any profession? You could have said or thought it. Most of us. I have a neat story on the screens. There was a startup weekend event meaning people from the community will come together and we pitch different ideas and form teams to try to come up with a viable [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. I pitched an idea that people thought it was cool and even though we did not come up with a viable business plan it was so really good. During that event somebody come to me and said you are doing a pretty good job with the team, but I think you should stop saying my idea all the time. We know it was your idea and you are probably proud of it, but we are all on the team now and we all now have a say in this idea and how it needs to evolve. 
>> That was a great piece of feedback and an even greater lesson on leadership. Leaders often come up with great ideas but the best leaders are the one who knows that once the idea is out there it becomes everyone's. They know that they need to step back and let the idea of all on its own. 
>> Fast-forward after graduation to a few jobs in services go and I think the biggest difference between that first job and today, even be on the technical is having a stronger sense of where I am in my own career and what leadership is all about. 
>> There have been some good things that have happened. In case you think I am completely -- for various important projects and I had the chance to go to Denver for three months and finally I felt comfortable enough to give this talk.. A big preview of everything. 
>> Some of my own observations on leadership. A lot of them are formed by my own experiences, but hopefully these are transferable to you and more importantly the observation it made me realize these constraints I had in my head about leadership are not really constraints. 
>> I will start with title right off the bat. There's an interesting intersection of title and rolls and job function and they are also related to one another. Think about what title is. The only thing a title really does is it tells you your functional role that you have in a company you are a program manager or finance. As soon as you add words like software manager it is easy for people to equate that with [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. There's some dynamics were just we may want to advertise [ Indiscernible - low volume ] but [ Indiscernible - low volume ] internally within your own company. We are all cognitively pretty lazy most of the time so if we see a piece of email or any sort of communication is as a senior on it it would be easy to [ Indiscernible - low volume ] at that point. In the best case we can overcome that and give people new ideas but it is not always that easy. It is easy to be subconsciously influenced by the senior title and give more weight to the ideas. 
>> If you're one of those people who are tightly wedded to this idea of title that is not a bad thing to ask yourself to keep in mind this question of what do you really want that title to represent? This with me a little bit of time to understand, but the incidence and values of the organization really and the type of leadership. I used to think that the wild, were opinionated person, authoritative person would always become a leader. If you the values and incidence of the organization I highly doubt you would say something -- and then you are a leader. These frameworks were created by humans and humans are imperfect and they probably in the absence of values like Corporation and mentorship it is very likely that style of leadership will bubble up to the top. What does that mean for you? 
>> If you are a person who is already loud and authoritative and perhaps a leader, maybe there is little incentive for you to change because it is already working somewhat for you. I think it is fairly clear that there are lots of different leadership styles and I think this is a great opportunity for different people across the country to work together in an inclusive setting of values and different types of leadership. 
>> This is an ideal [ Indiscernible - low volume ] I use will really progress if there is progress to the point that it is only [ Indiscernible - low volume ] there are a lot of different steps along the way. To make this happen to me. I was working on the team and I was doing the work and all of a sudden a switch flipped and my head and I [ Indiscernible - low volume ] how everything worked into end. At the same time I want to delete became a subject matter expert in that area. The reason to expect that what happened, but looking back I think it was really realizing that day-to-day work is what we will experience most of the time which is why they call it day-to-day work. If that is the type of work that gets us ready to take the next step up in this process. 
>> If you are noticing a lack of progress that does not necessarily mean you could be passive about leadership. Even the best managers cannot be perfect at all times. We as individuals have to advocate for ourselves as much as possible. If you have done good work that does not mean there is someone who gets you, most of us just focus on our own stuff and that is the truth. We generally just do not notice. If you have done some good work, if there is some measurable impact around it be super direct and call it out. Chances are people will acknowledge her efforts and more than likely they will try to find what best practices you use and try to bring those best practices to their own team. Delight herself to get chapters of this yourself like someone will notice my good work. It sometimes can happen, but often times it doesn't. Not for any malicious reason. The best leaders are also the best advocate. 
>> Finally, observations around [ Indiscernible - low volume ] we all have us in of doing Monday code cleanup or [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. We are doing any sort of work that feels like motion. A typing motion shows up on the screen but it does not have a meaningful impact. The best leaders I have noticed always seem to have [ Indiscernible - low volume ] of what the best and most impactful work of doing at any given time. They have never seen [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. A lot of this is context to remain dependent so busy work in one domain may be [ Indiscernible - low volume ] in another domain. What I noticed was that this often meant to say [ Indiscernible - low volume ] very often. It is a really awkward feeling to say no. I think a lot of us want to do good work but saying no is actually a really hard to do. The output that you want to strive for is quality output and not some arbitrary number of things you have done. That is not what we're going for. While these observations are daunting or super obvious, I think there is a lot we can to write now to become more effective leaders in our own organizations. 
>> I hope that each one of these things can be continuously practiced and results in a positive influence and are available to anyone at any location whether you are [ Indiscernible - low volume ], in the experience level or title. That charismatic leader that I applied earlier is one who talks his way out of anything and aspires to treat. That is a great definition of a leader but I think the most underrated skill of the leader is listening. What is listening? [ Indiscernible - low volume ] viewpoints from different people or written things. It also gives you a chance to leave the room in the situation. In a meeting, for example by an employee who never seems to limit if you call the person ask what they think it has tremendous -- it shows that they are present and that this person exists into the summer have a good idea also. To follow what I call the Murphy's Law of talking if you feel you have been talking too much you have definitely been talking too much. Lots of effective techniques for starting to get to a culture of listening and not just talking. Putting your phone away or laptop away in meetings -- then you can do things like for example have someone delegate. You want to start with the person has been at the company for the shortest amount of time versus the person have been there the longest with the most seniority. You can also use brainstorming techniques so rather than getting into a meeting where everyone is talking to have everyone sit down and write down ideas. Then everyone puts all of the post it's on the whiteboard and the group get some ideas together. 
>> Finally one thing has ablative set of ideas and explain that to the entire group. 
>> There are plenty of other things you can think of, but the point is leaders don't just get the best out of people by talking all the time. They find a way to get the best out of everyone in the room. 
>> The best leader strive for continuous improvement and you can do that without an honest assessment of your own skills. Assessing your own skills does not mean preparing yourself -- it means doing it as objectively as possible. This does not have to be scientifically rigorous in any way. For me I just focus on [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. What am I good at and what do I want to improve? Notice I did not say what I'm not good at. It is a small thing that [ Indiscernible - low volume ] I cannot get out of that. If I say this is something I want to improve that is much more dynamic and it makes me feel like I'm not good at this now, but if I work on it I will get better at it. They are really small things but it helps make it in that right frame. 
>> When you do self-assessment the honest would also be kind. For the honesty part, technology gaps. We all have them and even the best leaders and most brilliant people in the world have things they can improve on. At the same time, be kind. If you have a long list of things you want to improve, that is okay. But that's it for a while, understand it, digested and don't try to tackle everything at once. 
>> How I used to do this was I try to remember everything I wanted to remember in my head. You can imagine how well that worked which was not well at all. Pretty soon I started writing things down. That works well for a while and then I noticed I just have a huge, long list of things that they never got followed up on. What is the point of writing everything down here I am listed the help of my manager. For me, at least, I never have luck with the reminded and said please do this [ Indiscernible - low volume ] my manager and I proposed something called the introspective which I thought was pretty neat. Basically dedicating our every basically just talk about longer-term goals. We talked about success and development, action items for me to work on and we would follow up on those action items. This was helpful for me to keep me accountable to say I wrote this down in the sexual at the moment. This is a template that we use and you can see this is pretty straightforward and obvious in things we've Artie talked about in 101 but that is kind of the points. It things around these conversations were already having to keep yourselves accountable. Try this out with your own team. Feedback. One of the most important things about being a leader but also one of the most difficult is what feedback requires. It requires a foundation of trust. A foundation of trust takes a really long time. If you try to ask for the you are going to get really generic feedback. You are doing fine [ Indiscernible - low volume ] if you're trying to as the critical feedback that will end up even worse. You're asking someone to say something negative about you, possibly,. You may be a very rational person and you can handle that but the person you're asking have know idea how you are going to react. They may think you completely flip out if you [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. Often times they will say you are doing fine even though there may be -- it is a really hard problem -- there are a lot of things you can do is not profound or shattering feedback. All things you notice your team doing and get that feedback [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> Once you build that muscle make the that really specific [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. If I ask you how is my communication that will result in more actionable in concrete feedback. For giving feedback there is something called the SBI framework [ Indiscernible - low volume ] and I have a link to it. 
>> Finally, with the back you want to set a good look at my first of many you don't want it to be so spread out that you lose that habit but not so close together that you can [ Indiscernible - low volume ] anything. The worst thing you can do is wait for performance evaluations because you were going to end up with [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. You can barely remember what happened probably a week earlier let alone six months or one year. 
>> Our favorite book as developers, whatever you're working on you should dive deep. As much as we love doing this you will not see this all the time. What does it mean to dive deep? It means to go from the top all the way to the bottom of the problem. What does the top mean? What is the problem you're trying to solve? What is the problem our customer is trying to solve? All the way down to have a get translated into code? As you do this you will probably [ Indiscernible - low volume ] lots of different layers versus the customer requirement had as I get translated to [ Indiscernible - low volume ] and get translated into code? You will probably also noticed a lot of assumptions about the way this works [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. The best leaders keep all goes apart and make them really explicit, preferably in written form that can be shared. When you do that, not only with your team appreciate it but [ Indiscernible - low volume ] all of that tribal knowledge and hidden knowledge and assumptions become really obvious and clear. I think the great thing about software is that if you do software right it really feels like magic. That depends on how deeply to go. If you dive deep enough you can uncover the magic of the software [ Indiscernible - low volume ] is trying to solve. This has a lot of benefits from a knowledge standpoint when you're much more likely to build better systems and tools if you know exactly the implementation or how it will behave under different programs. You will notice design patterns that are shared across different domains and you can take those best practices you have learned already and bring them to your own design. Finally, if you remember the flywheel one of the steps was teaching others. What better way to teach others than to actually know how something works 
>> Here are some examples from my own work. We had a postmortem one time where a [ Indiscernible - low volume ] broke test and development for about half a day. We had a fairly good timeline of what happened and I wanted to construct as I can the timeline as possible within of details [ Indiscernible - low volume ] issues like this in the future. It was a weird interaction between my SQL exclusive table box and the database strategies [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. I am not an expert in any of those, but the point of diving deep is not to be [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. It is the extra work for the source code, documentation [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. Everything it takes to peel back the magic of software. You can do this in non-technical [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. When I first for interview feedback it was very generic and not really useful at all to any meaningful hiring decisions. Note natural formula, I'm not an expert at all but it was figuring out the components we are looking for, what do I need to get better at what I write my evaluations in doing that over and over again [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. I am not perfect now, but I'm definitely better. I found that I can do this in the evaluations I am writing now are obviously better. 
>> A little more I want to emphasize that the technical leadership parts of a project that we made to our super important, but there are a lot of non-technical things that are equally important. The scenario we have in our head is [ Indiscernible - low volume ] and maybe after some deliberations our tech lead is chosen and unfortunately that person is [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. Yes there were knowledge gaps that I had so I probably was not ready for that, but looking back I could have made a lot more impact if I realize that there were a ton of things around shipping a successful software product to be on the technology, really make or break project. A lot of these things are pushed aside -- if someone will take care of all of the dedicated leadership  here are some examples from my own careers, project management. Do you have a launch plan? What are your stakeholder communications and metrics? All of these things are for you to keep in mind that while technical leadership is a huge component there are tons of other ways to have impacts as well. 
>> If you want to know how well you are doing with anything the best way is [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. You may be doing this already for [ Indiscernible - low volume ] metrics but you can actually do this for leadership as well be measuring those. Measuring is part art and part science and it is really easy to over measure things or things [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. I always like to keep in mind two things. One is is what I'm measuring going to tangibly impact an area I'm interested in? If not, why even bother measuring? Secondly, something I'm measuring having clear signals [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. You may have quantitative metrics already or maybe just want to [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. Don't forget how I stopped at an example is let's say you ship something. Quantitatively you succeeded. You should this thing on time, but how did you do it? Did you do this by yourself and left a trail of tech that in Norway or did you have tight feedback in your way or did you have tight feedback with your stakeholders [ Indiscernible - low volume ]? I would argue the second is that in the first will really depend on your particular circumstances. The important thing to keep in mind is that you wish leaders are aware of the trade-offs and if they exist. They will keep in mind not just quantitative metrics but the howl as well. 
>> Here is an example of how you may [ Indiscernible - low volume ] your metrics. Using the objective and keep results framework. This is one way to do it and is a popular way as income. Project objectives you can think of as longer goals that you have the key result are were those comment. This is a sample of some of my own [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. The important thing to note is that the key result are unambiguous. Either I achieved 40% [ Indiscernible - low volume ] where I didn't. There is a middle ground. Either I did I didn't. Even writing these down on paper where I can read them later is a great where I can have some thoughts as they do these actually makes sense as I come back and read them again 
>> -- The results of those actions will warm the next step [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. This is a flywheel that you can use to further your leadership. All the things I talked about it really related to each other and they can use these together for greater practice. 
>> The matter what stage you are at especially if you want to be a people manager of complaint [ Indiscernible - low volume ] is great to get cracking on this as soon as possible. New hires especially are but no. They come in with a beginner's mind so they don't have any of the assumptions you have about your system for processes, [ Indiscernible - low volume ] take this to heart instead of pushing them away [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. There are lots of different types of mentors out there. I like to vinyl with complementary skills which is a fix when it's right and also someone who could be honest with me and not only thing that I want to hear. They're going to ask me all these questions and I will not have time for that. That is not exactly the situation you might want. If you think about what that means to me some I trust you enough that you have that knowledge and also trust that you care enough to potentially answer your question. If that is not the definition of being a leader than I don't know what is. 
>> Last one, take care of your physical and mental health. I think it is great that this thing about the how the starting to be lifted and it is there's we have set example for others and know when it is time to take a step back. For me I could feel that in impacts my workspace and I don't focus on these things. For me a good weekend is enough, but you know yourself best and you know how long you need to refresh. 
>> Focusing on mental and physical health gives you time to prepare [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. 
>> I put this last because it is the foundation of everything if you think about it. If we don't have physical and mental health then there is a way we can possibly tackle any of the goals -- there's something too small you can do here there is no better time to start now. 
>> Everything I said sounds pretty good hopefully. There is one limiting factor in with the that will prevent us from reaching our goals. Does anyone know what it is? Yell it out if you know what it is. I will tell you what it is. It is time. Who has time for all that stuff I just talked about? No one has time for that time, our mortal friend in enemy, whatever you call it rears its head again. The best leaders I wouldn't say the necessarily embrace time but they are cognizant of time and the effects it can have. We may have a huge list of things that we may effects it can have. We may have a huge list of things that we may  want to focus on and the best leaders knowbest leaders know  that there will be unforeseen events in your company and unforeseen events in your personal life. [ Indiscernible - low volume ] at some point. 
>> If you think back to one of the first slides I have with leadership being maturity, the best leaders embrace that and realize that it is a marathon to reach her goals and it is not a sprint. 
>> You may think after everything I said that leadership is inaccessible given the constraints in your organization. You may think that you may want to be a leader in an IT capacity picture company has leadership of people management which is not [ Indiscernible - low volume ] at all. You may be a remote employee who has great ideas but somehow all of the interesting technical work gets assigned to people in headquarters. These are really her problems and there are no easy answers. That being said, I think we as employees should hold our organizations accountable for the environment and culture that they said. Managers should not just empower us -- managers should empower us rather than just delegating and should celebrate small wins as well as big win. Vision of the government leadership is a finite resource that has to be allocated to exactly the right people. Organizations should strive for [ Indiscernible - low volume ] have hard conversations about diversity and belonging they should be tackled head-on rather than ignored. Finally, we as employees should insist that leadership isn't something where someone has to win and someone has to lose. Leadership isn't [ Indiscernible - low volume ]. There is a lot we can do as employees but there is a lot of our organizations can do as well to get there. I want you all to keep that in mind. Organizations are there to help us along the way. 
>> I want to wrap up by saying that the opportunity around this topic in particular was a really big surprise to me. There have been so many things said about leadership and what more could I possibly say? This was hard to do this presentation and I said what just right one idea down on a piece of paper. After that it got easier and so I finally reached this presentation. I think leadership is the same way. Don't try to climb that mountain all at once. Just start with one thing. One idea for process improvement, one encouraging word to a colleague, one more hour figuring out why that [ Indiscernible - low volume ] the way it does and go from there. If you start with one you will be a leader. 
>> Thank you, and lead on. 
>> [ Applause ] 
>> I put some resources of favorite books and blog posts and articles about leadership and if you want to contact me the contact information is there as well. I will be up here for any questions that you may have. Thank you. 
>> [ Captioner standing by ] 
>> [ Captioners transitioning ] [ Captioner standing by ]
>>Can everyone hear me? Raise your hand in the back if you can hear me? Hopefully you can see this. How many here sees a bunny rabbit? Who here sees a duck? Does everyone see both a duck and a rabbit? Okay, cool. This is an illustration made by a Polish psychologist, published in 1899. When you look at it, some people perceive a duck. If you look at it a little differently, if you look at the docks bill, you will see a rabbit. This talk is about perspective. Perspective does not change your reality, but it changes how you might interact with it. My name is Jennifer Tu . I am one of three cofounders, software consultant with develop education and engineering leadership training. I have been both software director and manager, I co-own a small company, and today I was not sure how I would approach navigating communicating with others. This is not the only way to do things, but hopefully it is one tool out of many that you can learn to use. 
>> Different people need different ways to communicate. That means it is always good to learn different communication techniques. The more technique means you can reach more people successfully, working with more people.
>> With all the roles I have had I have made request to my teammates. Sometimes I need to ask them to change or adapt to what they are doing. And sometimes that reaction is not what I expect. Sometimes that reaction looks a little bit more like this. Sometimes people have a poor reaction to my suggestion, and they reject them out right. It does not matter if that other person is your report, or your peer, or manager. Whomever they are, unexpected responses can be a frustrating experience on all sides. You are frustrated because you thought the simple request would be suddenly hard. They are frustrated because you just gave them a hard request. 
>> It is something to think about the situation at this in terms of failure. It feels like you failed to communicate. It feels like they failed to hear you. And it is easy to think that successful communication looks like getting ideas across the first time we try, and if we cannot do that we fail. That is the message we get a lot. There are classes that you can teach to craft your message, choosing the right word so your communication is clear and unmistakable. 
>> That is not really communication. That is being able to give a unilateral command, knowing that your intent is clear to the other person. That is not communication. When your message does not land the first time, that is not a failure, that is the beginning of a dialogue. That is where your communication can begin. 
>> Was that a duck or a bunny rabbit? Is it failure, or is it the beginning? All of that is perspective. Perspective can help you with looking at what looks like your personal shortcomings or personal failure, seeing it as none of that. But more as an opportunity to engage with the other person. Perspective can also help you get what you want. It can help you look at why the other person is responding the way they are, understanding what it might take to change how they feel, and how they think. 
>> I am not appear talking today because I am awesome as being the right thing the first time. I am given this talk today because I have a lot of experience around navigating beginnings. This talk is going to share one of the ways that I look at it. I only use it when I am working with people that I think are operating. If you do not take what I say over the first 30 minutes, or operating [ Indiscernible ]. 
>> For the teammates who you believe are operating in good faith, what I need to do is have a dialogue, and there are three variables that I think that I will describe. These variables determine how successful my request might be and how I should approach the problem. They are understanding, agreement, and willingness.
>> If the other person understands my request, that means that my message was received and it did not get garbled. We agree on the message content. If the other person agrees with the request content, and they think the request is a good idea, and if the other person is willing to perform the request, they plan to change their behavior to match what they believe that request may be.
>> It is important for me to know the states of these three variables, because it gives me the baseline of understanding for the other person, and what I should do to try to reach them. This is a little abstract. We will go through an example and I will one through variations. After that, we will dig into more detail on what to do. 
>> Here is the first example let's include unit test. Does that sound good? I know you have been including all unit test and everything looks good. This is the happy path. The other person understands, agrees and willing to take action and they do it. I often think about combination is a table. Here is how I visualize this example of the happy path. Does the other person understand the request? I knew they were looking for unit test and did they agree that the request is a good idea? Are they willing, or is it true? This is the combination that is required. I will talk about it.
>> Things get more interesting when you speak one of these variables. We are going to toggle the variable for understanding, and we will switch it over. We are no longer on the happy path. I will replay the example and toggle those understanding to default. Let's include unit test and every change request. 
>> I notice you have not been including unit testing your change request. Oh, you wanted unit test and every change request? This is why it is most important to understand the state of your understanding variable first, out of all three of the variables. If you do not have it you will not be able to go forward. If you have agreement and willingness, those are all meaningless, if that person is agreeing and willing, to do something different than what you thought you were asking. 
>> Let's do one more tweak we will keep understanding and now we will make agreements and willingness as well. Let's include unit test and every change request. No way. You were just preaching the gospel of unit test during lunch today. Oh, you want unit test in all your change request? Yes, let's do that. If someone is not thinking about the same thing you are, it is impossible to agree with you, and your ideas, because they are not thinking about your idea. Whether they agree or disagree does not matter, because they are agreeing or disagreeing to something that is not what you are talking about. If understanding is false, you can think about the other two variables as being undesigned behavior.
>> If someone has similar rallies to you, getting to understanding, and having them to agree. If it does not, at least know you are talking about the same thing. And that by itself is valuable. You can successfully communicate what you want and you have an understanding.
>> When you are making a request to someone else, start from whether they understand your request if you do not have understanding, you do not have anything else. If you do have understanding, remember, especially if you need to work hard for it, that is an accomplishment. You hit a milestone in connecting with another human. And you should be proud of yourself for it. 
>> Let's look at what happens after you clear this first hurdle. The second variable is willingness. If someone understands your request, and willing to do it, or if someone is willing to agree about the happy path. Every now and then you get someone who does not agree, thinks your request is a bad idea, and willing to do it anyway. Let's see the unit test and every change request. I think I unit test and every change request will slow me down but I am willing to give it a try. When you hear this, it might be tempting to categorize this interaction as a happy path, because they are willing to go along. In reality, this is both a warning sign and a gift. The person you are talking with has a lot of trust in you. Like Jim was saying earlier in the previous talk, this person trust you enough to override their own judgment, and they trust you enough to share their reservations. Do not take this person for granted. Make sure you are using that trust well. 
>> You might also remember yesterday, how her conference attendees trusted her enough to give her feedback. This is the same thing. When you get feedback that someone has reservations about your idea, it is the same thing. Is a gift and it will not be appreciated if you do not repeat it. To express your appreciation make sure you understand everything the other person shares with you. It is possible they might see a better solution than what you requested, but they are the referring to your idea. They might be doing that because they want to support you, or they might be doing that because they are motivated to act always with a greater good. Whatever the reason, do not throw away the gift by ignoring their feelings on the matter. For the person who was afraid of the unit test, check in with them over the next couple of weeks or a couple of times. If they still feel that way, maybe there is something fundamentally wrong about your code. And that makes it impossible unreasonable. 
>> Maybe there is. If you have had that experience we say to your manager, I have this problem. And your manager says, thanks for bringing this to my attention. You need to focus on this other thing instead and nothing changes, you have had this experience. You have experienced this yourself. You understood your boss had a different priority, and you were willing to go along with that. Eventually your disagreement on that prioritization, it is -- it exhausted you. When you on the other side of the fence, the person making the request, and you need someone to go along with your idea, try to remember how it looks and feels on your side. You only need understanding and willingness to in order to get your idea to go through. But you need agreements with the other person to continue to want to work with you. 
>> If you ignore this variable you might be ignoring a legal problem that you cannot see. And that other person will get tired of you not caring about what is important to them. If you do not see any progress, and someone coming to our agreement with your request. Start talking and working to uncover why they aren't happy. Check in with them regularly to see if their feelings have changed to disagree and degree. And be prepared to do some work to get there. 
>> Let's take a look at the inverse situation if the other person agrees but not willing to go along with your idea. Let's include unit test with every change request. I know unit test is a good time, and it will make a [ Indiscernible ] but I do not know if we should do this. The person you are making a request to does agree that your idea is a good idea, but they are showing hesitation and being willing to go through with it. When you hear hesitation or concern like this, it is a good idea to ask yourself a few questions. Why is this important? What happens if I do not succeed? How will the other person feel if I do this? Why does the other person feel how they do? How will I look back on all of this in one year? 
>> What is stopping and asking these questions important? Is getting your colleague to write unit tests all the time really the most important thing you could be accomplishing right now? Is this what you want to be proud of? Do you want to be proud of this in one year? It is easy to set your sites like improving your test coverage, and lose sight of everything else about the goal. How do you know if your goal is the right one? If your colleague is hesitating and/or showing concern, maybe there is something that you do not know about that development environment, or the business priorities, and what you are trying to do, and whether it will have a purpose to it. You might want to get information before continuing to pursue.
>> When you get that information, you might realize you are not asking for the right thing. Sometimes it can be embarrassing to feel like you are publicly changing your mind, and it can feel [ Indiscernible ] either by explicitly are silently dropping what you have asked for. You might feel conflicted about something you value. We care about code quality. Right? I want to guarantee to you, people are going to respect you much more, for doing the right thing, and single-mindedly [ Indiscernible ] whether it is the right thing.
>> If it seems like your goal is the right thing to do, share with the other person why it is important. If you are transport about your reason, transparent. You can help other people adopt your motivation. Or it may reveal missing summation, they can pointed out to you. Whatever the result, sharing your context will make everyone involved, better to make informed decisions. You should do this, not only when you encounter someone that agrees, but share context with any of those previous combinations that we talked about so far.
>> The only time it might not be a great idea to do that, will be for the final table configuration. Here is the combination. Let's include unit test and every change request. Unit test and change request, that is a terrible idea and we should not do it. The person you are talking with understand what you want, and unwilling, and disagree with your request. Before we dive into what to do, let's do a very quick review of the whole table. 
>> If you are looking at request through the lens of threes three variables, you want to look at the variable. If you have understanding, agreement and willingness you can go forward. If you do not happy, clear the misunderstanding first. If someone hesitates or agrees, you may not have agreement or willingness or either. If the other person is willing to go forward, do that and be careful not to burn them out, making sure that what you are doing is worth it, and willing to change your mind and drop your request. 
>> If the other person is unwilling to go forward and you still want to go forward, your best path is to stop, drop and listen. That means you stop pursuing your goal, you drop the topic, and you listen to the other person.
>> Now, stopping and dropping the topic might seem like the opposite of getting to your goal. I am going to go in deeper on how this will actually help you. Let's do the mechanics. Stop, drop Alyssa means you call for a timeout, agree on a time to return to the conversation. That might be immediately, the next day, or some time in the future. The important thing is that you are communicating a desire to reset the conversation. You can start when you are both ready. 
>> This is important, because some people need time to react to new information. When someone is busy reacting, they are not really talking with you anymore. They are in a reactive mode, interacting with their feelings and reactions to the new information that is given. You might be in front of them, and it might seem like you are talking with them, but you might not actually be a part of the conversation. 
>> When you stop, and you give people time to finish having that set of feelings, you are giving them time to come back, ready to engage with you. There are two reasons why someone might be in a reactive mode. One, they might have passed experience of influencing the present, and the other reason, external factors currently in their present encouraging the request.
>> Sometimes when we hear something, it might remind us of random path does go past experiences. If they were particularly impactful expenses, they might think about the past instead of the present. When someone is in that kind of state, the only thing that they hear from you, it is time to process their strong feelings. And re-anchor themselves into the present. This might be after lunch, after sleeping on it, or after many nights of sleeping on it. Right now, never. Whatever it is, given that time and space. 
>> You might be wondering, how to know how much space and time to give. There is an art to it, but here's a rough guide to how to get started. If the other person is not to upset, you can agree on a rough time together you may say tomorrow, next week after lunch, but their feelings are awful, just proposing talking again sometime in the future might make them feel even worse. In that case, you need to know what you know and you need to figure out the best time to bring up the topic. Meaning, paying attention to your regular conversation, looking for signs that they are exiting that reactive news. Then you can ask if it is okay to bring the topic back up some time. 
>> If the answer is no, leave it at all. If the answer is may be, maybe later or maybe never. By giving them time, you were giving the other person a chance to work through that internal conversation before picking up the conversation with you again. It is giving them a chance to feel, I am thinking about that awful thing again. This is a different situation. It is given them the chance to give your idea a fair hearing. If this works, and the feelings are not coming from the past but from the present. Maybe there is stuff going on in their personal life. Some of us want to think that home life and work life are separate, but everything bleeds through. If someone is having a tough time in the personal life, they may not be able to make changes or changes in other areas of their lives, including the office. 
>> This is one reason why [ Indiscernible ] is really important. If you want to influence what others do, stay in touch with them with regular conversation. That is how you are going to learn what baseline is important, and how you learn whether it is a good time to ask for a change, or if the other person is less for change than usual. 
>> It might not be their personal life. Maybe their work environment is making it hard for them to get work done right now. And they cannot see how they could do more work, like adding a unit test. If you can uncover anything that you can do to help them with their situation, do it. Whether you are a leader or a peer relationship with the other person, find ways to pull off the pressure. The more power you have, the more you will be able to do. Even if you feel like you do not have any power, your best to get creative and find ways to pull the pressure off your colleague. 
>> If you are asking someone to make a change, be able to help them make the change. If you remember that we factoring, it replies to cold and real-life. When someone is being overwhelmed by external factors, could be hard for them to accept or initiate the changes and to do that balancing act that they have going on. Be aware that what you are asking for might seem like a small request, but to them they have a bunch of balls in the air and they are being able to pick up one more thing. It might seem small to you and too much for them. 
>> Make the change easier for them. You can wait until the external pressure eases off so changes easier, or you can jump in and take some of the pressures off so the change can be easier. One think you might've noticed, whether someone is reacting to external factors, or reacting to their own ideas of the past, it all looks the same. It looks like the other person is being obstructive and difficult.
>> That is all perspective. If you look at it a different way, you can see that your [ Indiscernible ] is under pressure doing the best with they have. Help them out. Respond in a way that lets them be able to process their feelings, and come out intact. You do not need to know what they are thinking about, or what that path -- past trauma is. Giving them a little space, and that sometimes is all they need. You can do that by reminding yourself to stop, drop and listen. Acknowledge this is a bigger request than you realize. Be prepared to listen.
>> There is a few things that you can do to be a better listener. If someone does not want to talk, do not push it, allow them to be able to decide if they want to be in the discussion. If someone wants to talk, your job is to listen very closely to what the other person is communicating. Which is not necessarily what they are saying. Listen for whether they sound like they are being persuaded, or whether they want to be persuaded. Or could they be persuaded. Think about the different questions. They may sound similar, but if you ask all, it will give you a complete picture of what the other person is thinking.
>> As the conversation progresses, get consent. Paying attention to the other person, and if it looks like they are getting uncomfortable with talking about whatever it is, check in with them. You might say, I know this is not easy to talk about, do you want to keep talking about it? Sometimes you can give options maybe you suggest that you go out to lunch early instead. Continue to give the other person more agency, deciding to continue to stay in the conversation. Finally, let them know you care.
>> Do you know what is worse than a feeling that you are being manipulated? It is the feeling that you are being manipulated, while in a vulnerable state. People can tell when they are being manipulated, even if they are too tired to call you out. When you drop your topic, and focus the conversation on the other person's problems, that shows that you care more about them and their feelings, then about your goal of getting unit test. 
>> Do not screw it up by returning to your request. Focus on the other person, let them drive the conversation back to the original topic when they are ready. Not returning to your topic might feel like you are running away, abandoning your principles. Not listening to your colleague, that is running away from their concern. And abandoning your teammate, which is even worse.
>> What if you want unit test and the other person is exhausted? They never want to touch the code again? And you may never see it again. Do you need to when this? -- Do you want to let it go? What is the worst thing that can happen? This is the question you need to ask first before you decide to make that request to the other human. 
>> If the answer is yes, here is a quick recap of what we talked about today. First, make sure you on the same page. If you do not have a shared understanding, everything is meaningless. If someone understands and willing to do it but they do not feel good about it, do not let them sit on disagreement for too long. They will burn out and they will not want to work with you anymore check and if they have more information contact [ Indiscernible ] figure out if the other person is willing to make change if not, you can drop stop and listen. You can come back to the topic, maybe not. This stuff is hard to learn. You will definitely make a lot of mistakes along the way. That is a part of learning. It doesn't feel good, and you will be okay. Keep trying. There is not really any good way forward and making a bunch of mistakes. Stay honest and brave enough to admit when you have messed up. Using techniques like this one, so you can learn to get to where you want to be faster. 
>> If you have more questions after today, you can reach me on twitter. You can email. [ Indiscernible ] we integrate the harder topics like today's into all of our technical workshops. Including our pairing services. Come talk to me more about this. I like learning about how other people think about communication and getting ideas across please come talk to me after. Thank you very much for coming to this talk. I want to give a big thank you to all of the staff and volunteers. Find someone in a purple shirt, maybe in organizer or volunteer thank you for making the last two and half days possible.
>> Thank you to the live captioner. Thank you to the staff. And the recording staff in the back. Thank you everyone. [ Applause ] 
>> [ Captioner standing by ]
>> Good afternoon everyone. How are we doing at day three? Yeah, okay. Let me try that one more time. How are you feeling in the afternoon of day three? Okay, I appreciate your indulgence the last time I was here, introducing beyond on Tuesday night, I unfortunately forgot the most important part of my introduction, which is to tell you the trivia about the hotel. Because I am here now and I have a microphone and you have to listen to me, I will give you the opportunity to give you three pieces of trivia about the hotel. 
>> Number 1, and the Crystal ballroom, for the thinking outline, which was a number 1 hit in six countries, but peaked at number 2 within the states however, the video, which Rolling Stone calls a stunningly romantic couples dance, one male video of the year. 
>> That is the room, where earlier in the week we learned how to take a song, and make a meowing cat version. Just so you know. 
>> Number 2, and the Tiffany room, Jennifer Lopez filmed the video for her song, L Nino. Which the magnet does go Lopez has exhibited, vibes within a luxurious room. And in that room, earlier this week we saw a robot that makes waffles.
>> Number 3, out in the corridor where we have been chatting with sponsors, recently a very different event happened Taylor Swift film the video for delicate, which was released about six months ago. In which Rolling Stone says, [ Indiscernible ] quote stunning electric gown. What I take away from this, Rolling Stone is easily stunned. 
>> Having the most important part of the Kino introduction, I am very pleased to be able to bring you this afternoon, Joseph Wilk,  a live coding performer, and this will be the perfect thing for our last afternoon. Please welcoming Joseph Wilk .
>> [ Applause ] 
>> Hello. I can take it from here. Make it bigger. Do you want me to reveal my secrets? I can tell you. My name is Joseph Wilk . I am a programmer, and I will give you a live performance, with visuals and music. And noise. All live coated, nothing pre-recorded. All done live. I have never done this before me before and it is improvised. -- Performance. We will get things started. 
>> Without further ado I will start making some noise and stop talking. This is done using sonic and 3-D [ Indiscernible ]. Okay, let's try to do some stuff.
>> [ Music ] [ Captioner transitioning ]

>>
>> 
>> SOME EXQUISITE LAND THE BEAUTY AND PRACTICALITY THERE IS NO REASON TO SACRIFICE EITHER ONE OF THOSE. PEOPLE WHO ARE WILLING TO SACRIFICE EITHER ONE OF THOSE WHO TAKE REALLY GOOD WHAT IT'S ABOUT. [ APPLAUSE ] 
>> Now I revealed the magic all that mess and look at E E -- is graphic as you learn -- so let me show what is going on what I have here is 3-D full-screen running in the background and transparent E. Many layers Emacs is a place to start and Emacs has direct control to the graphics and control to the visual unity of supercollider and sampling and also running which is controlling MIDI which is directing this the synthesizer in like coding it's a musical instrument that Emacs is running inside itself which is I do weird stuff like controlling the speed and going back and forth here it is forecasting messages to the game engine and forecasting messages to the audio engine which is a great thing about code I can manipulate many things through patterns and executing functions of code that have many many implications in the performance. Emacs and I run the code you can see if/when I do that usually hidden in its getting to a Ruby server which is executing the code in Ruby and back again is messages to the graphics everything you see is functions and they do hideous stuff I have to admit it's a beautiful thing about coding is a lot of -- I also if I was fancy I would say influence its macros and macro in Ruby if I'm not being fancy I do reg X is on the Ruby source and I remove comments for this structure because this is my Ruby I like -- this is my personal Ruby what I use to express myself through and hence I it's more details which other types of programming there's a couple other things that the I will screw over some of that. And just scoot over some of that -- this is the only let's say unity 3-D is an open source you can get a free license don't have to pay to use it able to use the software I'm using [ Indiscernible] rendering lots and lots of MIDI. I want to see if I can get this to work so I can show you roughly what's going on beneath the surface others a lot and signed unity it's a case you can't do this with Ruby you probably could embed rude to be if you want to try and some wondrous things like that and really what I'm doing is building a theme where lots of controls getting sent using something called a what's the open sound control which is the the using computers and you see it as choices predesigned as such you can see in this example which so you come and see the fancy stuff and see I composed the theme and the scary thing I will send the link and you can go take the stuff and do-it-yourself that's my goal here this is how I get Ruby to speak to unity and what you have here is effectively a patch craft which has many many a what's the and points OSC endpoints -- this is a force to join a vortex simulation and I'm sending a Ruby message from my code and from Emacs to that address and let's jarring transitions not nice friendly. The magic that's going on there's lots of horrible horrible bits of code I'm not will show you but my goal was to try and give you something to take away and do stuff yourself and talked about this before how I do the steps I wanted to give you some links you can actually do stuff yourself it is fun and I highly recommend it and it's amazing to think about Ruby from a different perspective and think about programming from a performance perspective how that program fits and you can mentally related and that URL is the source code out push with the source code of a now migrated to Ruby code and this is a deviation from one of those tracks you can go to the open source I did today and browse for yourself and I also in iTunes and the music stores naming my album at EOPS and sonic pie open source tool using Ruby to light code music audio pretty much and you consent OSC and do everything I've done through Emacs through the interface and whatever edits you want to use nothing to stop you from doing that and so my goal with this is to go to schools and show children how they can use programming language to explore creativity and then go and work with professional composers and the TV programs and programming can augment creativity discover interesting musical avenues I guess so it's a spectrum I can sit night class with a bunch of children say make that you'll be much better than I will ever be you can take and the other and they can take to fruition about composing professional level music unity you can get a free license and don't have to use you could use a browser-based thing and shaders and anything you can imagine you can control so there's a huge community around like coding using tools I'm happy to give recommendations for if you want to play around with other stuff unity treaty or JavaScript you can have choices there and the other most important thing is like these things how they fit together is a live and I mentioned it because is not very well known in without this it's impossible to get unity to speak [ Indiscernible] downloaded and install it in the are done and able to send messages through Ruby which is super exciting. So if you like my music thank you very much I try and this is an album I put out I'm going to hazard a guess I might be wrong first person ever to publish an album on Spotify using Ruby code so if you enjoy that you can take it out on Spotify and various other things I'm happy to show you and also one other thing I forgot when I hit run in my like coding session Emacs not only do I have the full source of the and composition how I composed it actually have some day one performance as every time I hit run that's a complete history of the performance and the creation of the piece and the weird and what are savages I went down trying to make it in again I'll push and and tweak it and if you want to talk about this I'm happy to share and show you and help if you want to know where to get started. Thank you very much everyone. [ Applause ]
>> Now we got our last afternoon coming up we have birds of a feather such as don't forget to come back here for Q&A in our closing session have to my screen and then we'll all disperse back into the Internet and see you again next year the wheels see you back your first here and have a great afternoon. [ Applause ]
>> Music Mac
>> [Music playing]
>> [ Silence ] [ No Audio ]
>> [Music playing]
>> Hello everyone welcome to the [ Indiscernible] I hate ponds hate them so much but Ernie makes me these do things. First I'd like to set up expectations for the talk is called the new managers took it in your mind you might have a picture of what a ToolKit should look like, if you walk in my garage will you see a well organize labeled and predictable regimen of tools? No you will not. I have a collection of crap I've accumulated through several times of need to buy for my mother-in-law from a Christmas 16 years ago filled with a bunch of crap I collected through 500 trips to Home Depot. Even with this modest set up I been able to handle most of my household needs with these basic tools so today I'd like to drag you through an abbreviated journey through 500 extremely painful trips to Home Depot to assemble 20 tools you can use to solve most management problems you're likely to encounter my name is Raymond Hayes and I lead and manage technical teams in Austin Texas for a company called [ Indiscernible] I like to dispel any illusion I'm about to handle a detailed diagram for an orderly mess free plan for your career leading teams and engineers idle rather tell the story of how one Manager accumulated their set of tools this is not my story I will tell your story. And I'm going to warn you Arthur will take us to dark places and that said let's start with the happiest moment. Your mantra calls you into her office and says you've done great work as a contributor but you've shown a special amount of promising leadership and collaboration and exultant leadership opportunities you been given so far need is open under T4 nonengineering managers and I think it Excel at this and she is reasonably enlightened and want you this not a promotion moving from being a senior mentor to a junior contributor and senior contributor to a junior Manager think hard about whether this is a trap you want to pursue and it's amazing complement and you think about the opportunity and wonder if you have what it takes to do this job you don't have any formal training there isn't any will Wheaton school of engineering management so is not a promotion it is more stress and going to take you out of somethings you are 69 put you into who knows territory by you like people and learn a lot and it's an interesting career track and your mantra would not of asked if they didn't think you could handle it plus there's one thing pressing on you that is pushing you in the direction of accepting. You think about the possible boxes they might hire instead of you and you think is better than risking the future of your team on summer rental you don't know and you could Ellie start with a pretty clear picture of the box you don't want to be in you have crappy bosses in the past and let's take a detour through the hollow crappy bosses throughout history the first architect is angry police Captain this is the boss and thinks being in charge beads interdisciplinary you are a loose cannon McCluskey I got aboard of directors bring down my neck and you issue a request like this I'll have your commitment for breakfast to near mechanical CAD boarded get out of my sight -- and may not have seen it but an entire distorted idea that being a boss means intimidating people into compliance I had one that little you to walk around yelling I don't see hands on keyboards hands on keyboard like have you programmed? The second archetype the lumbar solely to assure compliance with company policy and protect her little feet down they produce little obvious value and hide that reflectively steal credit for other people's ideas they are deeply insecure making them particularly dangerous. The third boss is hovering our Director the boss who knows her things in a the intricate details of your job and cannot help but micromanage every keystroke to make sure it is how they would do it themselves. It only now occurs to me that I should've made this entire talk a classification system for bad bosses but we have to move on to the granddaddy of them all the bad boss alpha. The patrons in a bad bosses is better trailer I'll summarize rather than compared to the quality of historical narrative you will see in the late 1800s Frederick Taylor worked his way up through the ranks of the Manager equipped to become a management consultant and his first big client was Bethlehem Steel. There he pioneered scientific management with a focus on using science to make people more productive and reduce waste his basic working theory was that rigorously optimizing each task will maximize the output of each employee and therefore the company as a whole and that sounds like a agile or lean modern management strategy and what's wrong with that? While the problem with this is it requires a command-and-control management style that is designed to turn people into replaceable cogs and puts them in competition with fellow employees leading to mistrust between employees and managers mistrust between employees and even sabotage it even requires strong micromanagement and discipline leading to the modern archetypes of bad bosses we talked about a minute ago. And when you see problems imagine that they can truly fair to say it's a trust problem Taylor solve the trust problems by strict measures and systems of command-and-control that definitely is one way to go so to give you a sense for how Fedor Taylor felt about trust employees I will pull a direct quote, now one of the very requirements for man fit to handle pig iron as a regular occupation is you should be so stupid and pathetic that he make up so stupid the work percentage has no meaning to them and consequently betrayed by a man more intelligent than himself into the habit of working in accordance with the laws of the size before he could be successful. That your father modern management everybody. Sounds like this is a person with this amount of respect for workers is responsible for the prevailing management theory of the 20th century cool cool cool, so first and foremost you know that's not going to be you understand the concept of leadership and throw your world best boss Mike in the trash and factor not to throw the idea being a boss at all so let's throw the term the trash with the mug. You accept the new responsibility knowing you could be a better bath than you had in the past bright eyed and full of optimism you show up for your first day in a new role, and you look around for the manual I work for how to do management and should be on the desk somewhere and no, check Emacs and there is no you realize you're on your own. So you do some stuff that feels like the right next thing to do and you start by having conversations and your several faulty management you know you need a lot more context and you talk to everyone to pull up put down roots and pull out information find out where the pain points are these conversations are pretty fun it is nice to get the additional context that you never had time for is a contributor but even have specific feedback and request for things they like you to do as a mentor is a good start must be that communication stuff they told you you would be good at. So first you find out the old Manager used to do when I once half an hour a week seems to be the going rate so you arrange schedules to put those on your calendars are talking with your team. You are acquired your first tool in your very own new managers toolbox. He found a great template for having a first one-on-one you follow it take notes and have ready productive conversation it's a good start. You are starting to understand what people mean when they talk about make a schedule versus Manager schedule your meeting folks covering issues free to follow them with counters starting to fill up, so you don't worry too much about the lack of clarity you turn your notes from your one-on-one feedback into task and put them in your trusty notetaking tool choice and turn into a rudimentary to do list and now you have 90% of the stuff on the list is wrong irrelevant or never going to happen but you have to start somewhere right? That's not the best feeling well but is one nagging at you worse you feel completely lost as to what to do next. Then you realize wealth management as a multithousand-year-old discipline in teaching management is probably a thing that exists somewhere so you ask around in a friend recommends the Manager staff by Camille 48 and it gives you a pretty good perspective on some of the expectations of the job. And this realization comes in time because you have your first real challenge that people come in and to interview and your put in charge of revamping the interview process which up to this point has been just white for gymnastics and gut feelings it is time to make it for arc is a Manager by creating a new interview process and interviewing some candidates. It isn't currently clear or well-documented process for interviewing so use your newfound research ability and find solid resources on up-to-date hiring practices you find some stuff about using exercises culture questions and otherwise to avoid the stereotypic on nonsense about reversing binary -- you put this in you are happy with and share with the team before scheduling a series of interviews with candidates and you spend a bunch of time creating resources for the interview my problems good questions and a rough outline time to send in the team. The interview starts and you get to see your carefully designed plan in action. Here we go, except wait, why is one of these engineers having the candidate reversed the binary tree on the whiteboard dammit and there wasn't anything important about wrangling the team around the interview and getting everybody onto the same page and as a result there is contention any post-interview decision the team doesn't feel comfortable with you making an offer you know you felt the candidate would be a great fit and you fight the entire team? You decide to take the out along the left lesson realizes a lot messier than you can capture in a medium [ Indiscernible] have to sit there and live at the potentially candidate think like a rock interview you lost control of and it takes a lot out of you you don't want to go to work the next day so you lay there in struggle but after a tough night you decide to get back in there and you can do it's my leg I -- Smiley Guy -- give him a hand everybody. [ Applause ] after taking that often taking a day to improve the process for next time you get back to the routine and realize you have another problem your team has no sense of progress about how they are progressing in their careers you know your company cares about the engineering track and not sure why nobody does anything about this so far so you ask your Manager if you can help create an engineering letter for your organization she gives you actually work in progress she started says knock yourself out. And you do research and find its a smattering of resources I want to build a injuring letter but not a lot of consistency to them you sympathize what you can find and compile it all to something that makes sense to your team. And that you complete the work on the ladder it takes time but you step back and look at it and are proud of it as you should be. You start sharing with the team and they like the idea it represents in the sense it's not just gut feelings that there's concrete areas they can improve on in order to grow in the role as engineers. And now after taking the beating on every process is good to have a win your Manager notices your work on this and after a couple of weeks points out the great work you did on rolling this out did that just happen? I think you might be getting the hang of this. Only now that you're rolling out this accountability framework one of the senior engineers you been talking to isn't really hitting the marks and less engineering letter news are realizing there's a nasty side effect of accountability you actually have to hold people accountable. Are the people missing the marker is a ladder broken? So you decide to investigate. And then on investigation you find the engineer exhibiting some pretty nasty behavior they've intimidated others made snide comments in meetings, and generally have not done the part of senior level with that involve helping their team. Now you have a real problem on your hands. You heard things about the person but now you have a framer to hold them accountable you wanted to be nice Manager but if some is acting like a jerk on your team is nice to know now you have the power to do something about it so you go to to HR and tell them I'm going to get rid of this person may tell you this company has made a significant investment in hiring and training is employing your job is to protect that investment that did not go as planned. In a reflection HR wasn't just covering their [NULL] it's a serious and  weighty decision you can't take lightly and your job is to help clarify and defend the values that make the team work well together and when you understand those you know this person is harming the team. So you taught your Manager and decide to put the additional effort into helping this person turn it around that means putting together at least the basic components of a performance improvement plan. This is going to require techniques and tools that you've never had to exercise before you look for books on the subject and realize the process starts by gathering and update an updated 2010 behaviors and needs correcting in assessing impact behavior sat on the team it is time for some hard conversations in the best manual for hard conversations I've ever seen is in radical candor by Kenneth Scott if you haven't already read it please do so it's in my top five books that I believe should be mandatory for all new managers. So you have your homework and read crucial confrontations a radical candor and you see clearly what this person needs to do differently to move from a place where there harming the team to where they are actually benefiting the team sleep pull the person aside give them the stuff feedback and they are surprised and want to fight you in this process rather than engage that you chew that class and you follow the principles you learned about and they seem to understand how their behavior is for the team and they want to change. So for a lot of people up yet is a paper trail for being fired. But you actually want to invest in the person's success and turnaround that is good otherwise it is a paper trail and will never work so you lay out a dictations with total clarity and meet with them weekly and follow-up week after week you keep working and clarifying and trying to coach this person but they keep falling into the same behavior traps over and over again I keep missing expectations of verbal slip appear on a casual dismissal there and there were performance actually seems to be decline they seem to resent being held to this new standard and they threatened to quit several times so you go talk your Manager in HR and they agree it is time you really wanted to turn around and you did your best to make it happen but it does not always work so you meet with your Manager the HR person and this person and lay out the situation it is not going well you sent in a meeting while you and your bicycling to the person that their time with you is up and is time for them to explore other opportunities. This was not what you had in mind when your boss told you they thought you had shipped potential it's stressful and exhausting you feel rung out and want to cry but you're the jerk that just fired somebody you should probably keep her complaints to yourself and my friend Lee made this for me when I said I need a drawing for my talk and I choose be up and down and right now I'm feeling pretty damn down and when transition from your first day thinking you would be a cool Manager didn't want to be a boss but whether you want it or not you are the boss now and everybody knows it and maybe it's too late maybe not too late to push the mug out of the trash you survive the process but is hardly feels like a winter in fact now that you're in the date today of managing you can't remember the last time you had a concrete went you think of it a daily jolt of progress but now there's no contribution graph no milestone just a gap between where the team is and where you feel like it should be in the work. Even though there's less a sense of progress is more of a sense of accumulating responsibility the number of people who need you at meetings or have a Manager present to going up faster than you can decline the meeting invite know you're lucky to survive the brush of minis ad hoc discussions of slack messages is difficult to draw boundaries because it's hard to know which parts are definitely your job in which part you can give someone else or -- not going to pretend like that's not my calendar. My friend Nick says a lot of smart stuff this is one of those things we love leadership because it's so squishy and hard to figure out but the problem isn't so squishy and hard to figure out and that includes the fact that from company to company the specific responsibilities of the Manager very widely. But you can count on core responsibilities. One of the things you learn is that a big part of being a mattress to be available if you look busy or talk to someone's one-on-one you're telling the need to get support elsewhere were nowhere it all. So you set up some office hours where you're just open and available you learn about and start practicing active listening techniques even clear the day with no minis just set for headstone work so you can start improving processes. Part of listening is taking action on the stuff that you talk about for the folksy mansion you graduate from the ad hoc to do list to moving the task into a manage -- a little overwhelmed at first you are even starting to get a handle on your Board and task for stacking up really fast but started lets him the stuff just go knowing you can't do everything. Now with all this happening you're starting to feel like you're getting out in front of your work just barely but that is a first. For all your attempt to get control over your work you always have one chaos monkey in your system and that is interpersonal conflict and sure enough one of your employees come to to complain about interaction with the product Manager where they didn't give clear enough requirements and then it dooms the future to late stage we were and put the goal for their Sprint in jeopardy another trying to figure out if that were? How to make a for someone else's mistake and I have a choice to make what you do to commiserate turn to slide 68. To go talk to the p.m. turn to slide 70 went to tell the person how to respond turn to slide 132 which one? And any suggestions? Nobody has suggestions. There was no way to win. Each one of those options lures you into the swirling vortex of drama and involving yourself in the swirling vortex always increases the swirling vortex do not taunt the swirling vortex of drama. Now you are stuck in this thing and the worst part is you have no idea how it happened you don't know how to fix it is a situation Trammell is a team just to dysfunctional to prevent this is there any way to figure out what happened here? I'll give you a hint, we can break that down further though your job is to neutralize the swirling vortex of drama by finding the source issue and addressing the first that did not happen in this case so let's dig in to find out what did happen the vortex started one person one on your team at a trust break was present when the product team there instinct was to jump in and talk to person to's and became defensive a Manager is going to them directly nasty to talk to them there Manager now Manager to feel protective of person to person back on their behalf the person your team is actually person person to buns for a while and they been letting a slide now you have three problems person one as a person to problem with in the problem Manager with person one. Now too late you fell for the trap becoming a detour to write about a trust issue and you made the problem exponentially worse by creating an upward draft and the power dynamics involved not to mention when team members go off for lunch and separate teams or beers and they went each other up about the other team everything is frustrating other managers mad and you have a lesson to learn and I see some apologies to make. And that was your one shot at solving this problem for the rest of your career. Just getting this happens all the time. So you let yourself feel crappy for me to place and get another opportunity to do it soon after. So this time you'd like to know how to we neutralize the vortex. When you have trust the problem become self repairing you focus on finding the root cause for that broken bridge of trust this time you choose to help rebuild the bridge by teaching your team to find common ground and build trust on it using the skills you learned in the book crucial conversation you get person one person together and find out where the broken trust is help them understand the common goal and make a plan to work together toward it you teach the person you manage how to build trust by handing the other person that vital token the benefit of the doubt. That was a 100 times easier plus your employee learned important skills around conflict resolution and they are the same team with the other person there more likely to manage future trust issues themselves. So there was a success story thanks in part to leaving on framework for problem solving by now you are to look for an existing framers for the problem that you run into but when one of those does not exist you take a moment to write up documentation how you might get that same problem in the future in a journal or a wiki and share that with your management team that way you don't solve and resolve the same problems over and over again you get to leave behind a framework to improve upon for next time. You fix the problem and leave the framework. In fact you seem to be on a roll lately having tough conversations when necessary pushing back on your team to build bridges of trust sharing your problem-solving framework and Korean task of your Board your job which brought you know is your job because you still don't really have a clear picture of what a managers job is with everything you've learned in the past few months you can check feeling they've only seen the tip of the iceberg and that that iceberg is just talking you waiting for you plotting to sneak up on you which is totally an iceberg thing to do. I'm not putting these -- Cindy says iron is out -- you know things are going pretty well you have attuned cultural sense and a fair amount of experience in software and you're starting to see patterns and people favor the cynical bite to the comments about a lack of direction the disengage thousand yard stare at meetings so you start finding yourself start actually empathizing with these feelings. Definitely something not right culturally speaking and now you've even start understanding what that person that you had to fire earlier was typing about. And no matter how many meetings you call to resolve problems these trust issues keep coming up and getting slightly worse like a creek in the floorboard that seemed to get louder each time you step on it. Teach kids early people. Something about this doesn't feel right. Is supposed to be good I don't know all your tactical when it seems you're pulling at the weeds but not getting the roots of them they keep coming back tougher each time at some point you start realizing what's going on and by the way this is a Thanksgiving baking idea for everyone if you want to spend a short time in your family's home you realized the root of your team's problems are due to a fragmented culture in they need help you know quitter and is not in you to say that's not my job so you strike right at the root of it the team needs cultural change and they need to center around a shared purpose so you sit with the person to find their frustrations and document them and analyze strengths and weaknesses for the team and set a goal to help shore up those weaknesses how do you know things are actually improving how do you measure something as squishy as culture change or are Manager tells you about objectives and key results in you dive into start helping you find some of those for your team and now it starts you start feeling like you're actually making tracks on stuff that matters so wait a minute, it feels like an important boundary has been crossed you were doing pretty normal Manager stuff a minute ago and all of a sudden you are trying to shift the culture of your entire team you took on this opportunity to learn how to manage people outperform cultural foundation repair. So you start to make the realization you know collected the problems of the entire team in your personal workload and your brain is screaming at you this is too much work and you go home completely rung out every day. And you hunted down every scrap and every resource and you made up enough of them to realize multi-resource lead if you just other people like you making stuff up and leaving site on the way and your brain is screaming there's no track to get better at this your learning as fast as you can but the challenges just come up faster than your fastest pace of learning and then in a you get tough feedback is hard to hear. You don't make me feel heard I don't feel like you're a very good listener and is not just your Fedora but is definitely not helping baby we have leave that on the on your team is trying to tell you in their own way they don't feel listened to that the changes that they want happening fast enough and are even headed in the wrong direction you get this job because you were great with people now everybody sing to be upset with you at once and now your brain is screaming I was supposed to be good at this and you feel like your mantra may have been mistaken what she thought she saw in you. In fact she hasn't said since that she partially hold you responsible for the palpable definer morale does happen that you start trying to change things for the better here at this point the temptation to quit or act for a not return to day-to-day coding is high nice merge conflict fighting about deep in your framework someday sounds pretty nice in comparison to this. You don't think of yourself as a quitter when things get tough you put your teeth and push forward. Why does it feel like this whole thing is sort of conspiring to make you feel bad? So much more to the video. You decide you need a plan so you pause and dig deep Catholic obedience and do little mini retrospective on your current situation and use the start stop continue method to make a plan to move forward. You got knocked down again but you toughed it out and survived the worst of it plan and handed days at the horizon grim determination on the face not the most satisfying place to be but better than having given up right somebody tell me it's better than having given up. These are back Cindy somewhere plunking me you put this cultural change into action and amazingly the plan is actually working in the team is starting to find their footing culturally you managed to move things forward in a meaningful and and the odds that were stacked against you and you managed to overcome them you've navigated this whole process through grit and sheer determination that said folks are starting to notice your good work and there's outward signs of success that success comes at a cost though in eternal you are starting to feel a little burnt I don't mean to be rude but I am trying to present a serious topic your so back to our talk do what you can that only way to relax play videogames getting drunk watching YouTube or watching you to get drunk and play video games in effect you combine all of these in every conceivable way to try to get enough sleep to wake up and do this all again the next day. But the end result of this escapism is like putting aloe on Sunbird it relieves the pain for a moment that you keep going out in the sun every day. Determination carries you through job crisis but you have to face yourself distractions are cutting it anymore sunny night you are sick to your stomach about the upcoming week the only thing poignant and is the fact that you're desperately needed everyone is depending on you and you are not say nice things about yourself at this point. You ran over all the things you have to do for work before you go to sleep if you sleep it off you haven't reshot to that candidate because you still haven't talked to the team about that interview that didn't go up because you designed a better interview process because your team told you they hate interviewing you still of a plan the next team off-site you can find something the entire team will want to do together and half the team thinks offsites are stupid anyway the list of stuff you're supposed to do is getting much taller than you can see over on Monday mornings you sit in your carbs during at where you sit in the bathroom staring at your computer before you open it up in your office have no idea why. You hope your coworkers don't notice but you think they do. You are ready to crack you know you're not doing enough. Wait a minute you are doing all you can. So that means you must not be enough your best is not good enough because you are not enough how do you fix yourself and somehow be more than you are? You tried to pretend and that makes things worse if you could just hold on a little longer you could all right these aren't funny more this is actually upsetting what is going on? I think I've seen this I know what this is the whole time it's been you. This is total internal shutdown you been ignoring you this is not good. You finally hit the breaking point you can't seem to get yourself out of the house to go to work. You are so busy focusing on making outcomes and taking care of other people with your get and rogues that you neglected to even check in with yourself you can't function normally you're not sleeping and always distracted your physical health is suffering you been trying to warn you all this time but haven't been listening now you are in agony you taught your friends and loved ones and they tell you your job is making you miserable just quit. But remember choosing this remember wanting this thinking you could do it that you should do it what were your reasons? Helping the team learning trying an interesting career track can you even fix this? Or is it too late? If you did quit than what? Should you give up and go back to contribution find a different job somewhere else is a mantra but you know you are not a quitter so I can you seem to turn this around we are not meant for this you can't see through the fog anymore you know why a friend told you about this video on the book by Bernie Brown about vulnerability decide to check it up and realized that a big missing piece is having a that you can't do all these things perfectly all the time so you make a decision something that had occurred to you and all of this was to ask your mantra for help maybe it's because you want her to feel good about trusting you with this role and you didn't want to let her down but at this point you are about to quit anyway so what you have to lose? You taught your boss and didn't mean to be the person that sits and cries your managers office but here on she tells you to take a few days off and just rely so that you'll be okay to step away and while you are away the knot inside you starts to unravel of it and you can think a little more clearly and you realize in that time there you've been afraid to admit that you were underwater to coworkers or even asked for any kind of help because of the images you had in your mind of the perfect Manager who could do anything. When you go back to Doctor Manager to go responsibilities to see we can drop you work with your peers and team to try to get some stuff off your plate so you can focus on stuff that really matters and open up sometime in one of the older wants of the delegation premises from seven habits and it works well enough Q4 resource about leadership you find the reboot podcast it's about being your true authentic self and leading from the heart and then you start to realize it's okay to be a flawed person with limits and lead others. And you friends told you from us to see a therapist but is seemed too weird or scary for some reason it's a pain in the [NULL]  and you didn't want to be one of those therapy people but it seems a little less threatening now you are open to it so it takes a couple of try to find the right person for you which is frustrating but you do fit with one of them and Abhi Graham gave it talk a few days ago that resume with many brought the point that program is obsessed with the idea being brains in jars completely focusing on our brains at the expense of our bodies our bicep so much to tell us they are the part of us that always lives in the moment when they're tired they're tired when they're hungry they're not fixated on some future state the way our brains do. Your therapist knows this and starts working with you starting with breathing exercises it's an animation I GYN Nathan Pyle made to help. Try it and inhale Excel exhaled Ash -- focus on the nation inhale and exhale, feel the rib cage expanded to your tilt your head back if you want? You exhale at your shoulders relax a bit inhale and exhale -- that was one minute imagine doing that a couple minutes a day a couple times a day. Not about tracking quantified self it's about listening to what your body wants is a sleepy Thursday warm in the room how does the air feel on the skin what something could do to show your body some love in these moments you start finding yourself more able to cope and start wondering what if your mind and body were in harmony and you start taking small steps toward moving around working out even benefiting and you are starting to be able to see over the mountain of challenges they haven't changed but you find yourself a little more able to cope. Making time to teach your team to self manage trading tools removing roadblocks in an upward spiral that makes you less desperately needed but more effective. For well-meaning people much of a sense of what we think a Manager should be is defined in opposition of this Taylor ask approach or bad boss in the past but is not a moral imperative that you be a certain kind of Manager that somehow your magic label to solve all the problems for all the people all the time it is your job to be available in listen to her team to coach and support your faults and tell the story of why the work matters to them in the business naturally there's more to the job than this but if you're doing these things you probably are on the right track. You have no idea so much of this is going to be working on yourself it's important work for anyone but is especially important for people decide to take responsibility for others it is a privilege to be able to do this to hire a therapist to be able to take time off so use that privilege to make some space to help others. And in fact that is a moral imperative of the shop that that management is poison our industry is lowering the quality of life for everyone muddying the definition of what managers are for and worse is five not the voice that we need most of this committee by reinforcing existing biases instead of examining them and breaking them down. That sounds like a lot but is not your job to fix this industry it is your job to be part of the solution which is way less stressful this wasn't my story this was yours. If you manage people I hope you didn't bring up old ones too badly if you haven't I hope it doesn't scare you off this industry needs managers like you just as you are imperfect uncertain struggling failing in learning. My Manager story actually started when Mike Moore took me to lunch one day and told me it done running the Utah Valley and ask if I would take over organizing I never thought of myself as someone who could do community stuff like that but the fact that he saw that Ami made me realize things about myself I didn't know. A lot of you might note Joe V Mike by the way but I knew him as disappointed request Mike and that's the last important to them until boxes gratitude I suggest writing down notes of gratitude you can keep them to yourself or share them with other people but taking that moment will help recently in ways that not much else can. The process is a painful but stripped away some protection that were keeping you from being your authentic self the truth honorable authentic self that you are is enough to do this job. You are not just as you are. The miracle of life is that whatever state you are currently you get to take another swing at it with the knowledge we need you take care of yourself take care of your fellow human beings leave the industry a little better than you found it. Thanks for listening and thanks for flying me out. [ Applause ]
>> Lastly if you want to hear me and another cohost talk about managing engineers with each other and sometimes with gas we have a podcast we release a fortnightly -- thanks everybody. [ Applause ] 
>> [Music playing]
>> 
>> Good afternoon everybody here we are at the end of Rubicon you made it congratulations thank you for chosen to in your conference with me I'm honored you are here. My name is Nicholas and I'm a senior engineering Manager recently joined Github and that is my stickers if anyone would like him if you have a funnel dependency alert on and get up post does the work my team does if you have possum speakers and functions talk to me I love to hear your thoughts if you're looking for a job I have a spot open for an injury mantra one of my teams it would be good for someone just getting into Engineering Management or somebody wants to move from writing code to working with people if that is you come talk to me if not you have a bunch of other stuff open also be happy to point you in the right direction. I also called a biweekly podcast on Internet leadership of Brandon Hayes the guys.for me and we also have another cohost Travis Weiss can I learn something from every single conversation feels like Peer Mentoring more than recording a podcast if you listen to it is like being a fly on the wall for one of our conversations a lot of fun you could check it out we get a podcast and with all that out of the way if you know me you know I've always got a story to tell it today is no different. So let's get going. 
>> If you've ever been to Paris and you probably remember the moment you first.of the Eiffel Tower out to one of your plane maybe me in the peeking over buildings and when you sought probably gave you chills that set I am here I am in Paris. Even if you've never been the Paris you likely still recognize the Eiffel tire immediately when you see it in print or in film. It is the emblem of Paris of France and universally recognized. The summer I had the amazingly good fortune to find myself running from the Eiffel Tower family and I'm not normally want to foist vacation photos out of room full of strangers but this picture my wife took of my then seven-year-old son Holden is one of my favorite pictures in the whole world. We just finished a picnic on the Champs de Mars and for the Eiffel Tower my son pulled out a book and start to sketch the Eiffel Tower in this was the fourth sketch of the Eiffel Tower he did. He wanted to get it right. You can see how captivating he is by the tower how hard he is working to capture it accurately is so focus. The Eiffel Tower does it to you it pulls you in and they should pay attention and I knew a little bit of the history the Eiffel Tower ready but as I sat there watching my son drop I found my mind wandering to the circumstance that brought the Eiffel Tower into existence when it was completed in 1889 the Eiffel Tower just over 1000 feet tall became the tallest structure in the world by almost doubling the height of the Washington Monument. Which had just been completed. How did Gustav build something so tall using late 1800s technology why build such an ostentatious statement piece in the first place to understand that, we have to know a little bit about French history. A little bit. This is no pulling the third not the famous Napoleon but the nephew he was like Jesse President of France in 1848 and at the end of his four-year term like his uncle before me decided he wasn't ready to go and so he threw a coup for himself and declared himself the Emperor and before the French people weren't thrilled about being in under Knepper they wanted to be part of a republic but he let France into such a period of prosperity that they just could not be bothered to revolt and overthrow him. That prosperity into what the Franco-Prussian War in 1870. Napoleon pick a fight with Prussia part of modern-day Germany over the growing power and influence they were gathering in the regent. He bit off more than he could chew. He was captured in a massive defeat of the battle so that at September 4, 1870 and our friend Napoleon the third handing over the sword after losing the battle. You that was an embarrassment for him and embarrassment for France. After the capture of the polling the French set up a new Republican government in the new governments for job is to get the Prussians to go home rather than annex all of Northern French into do that they had to pay huge reparations that plunged France deep into debt. Prosperity was gone and now not only were they broke but their defeat in Franco-Prussian War was a huge blow to the collective French ego. Fast forward 10 years to the early 1880s France was nearly back on his feet and paid its reparations and largely recovered in the Republican government enacted at the end of the pole in the third Empire held its own against a variety of challenges and was guided France back into prosperity the 30 year renovation of Paris by Georgia seen husband had been finished placing narrow medieval streets with broad tree-lined avenues like this one that bears his name and Paris was ready to show off. And what better way to do that than to host another world fair. Prince Albert the husband Prince Queen Victoria the idea in 1850 want to invite all the nations of the world to come to London and to show off their industrial progress. The French liked the idea so much they hosted one of their own four years later in 1855. Again in 1867. And again in 1878. Eight years after Napoleon's defeat at the bottom them and the 278 exposition was really meant to mark the French recovery from the Franco-Prussian War but the French were so embroiled in political turmoil trying to get the Republican government to stick that they really did begin preparing interest for the exhibition until about six months before. So it was a bit of a Chamblee can't really throw worlds fair in six months. And so in the early to 1880s meant to hostso in the early to 1880s meant to host  yet another world's fair in France was picking up steam and organizing committee was organized to preparation pick a date and what better day than the 100th anniversary of the storming of the Bustillo the storming of the steel is a symbolic start of the French revolution to overthrow the monarchy and celebrated as Bastille Day in France I can in a state America the same sort of holiday. Now each of the exhibitions Helen Perez had been more grandiose than the last so the committee also announced a competition to design and build a spectacular centerpiece for the fair. That competition got the attention of these two gentlemen Maurice Kochelin and Emily will to structural engineers accompanied the two of them finished working together on the beautiful Garabit Viaduct at 407 feet above the tree river below it was eyes bridge in world but open in 1884 they had the idea of having the same insured principal to build giant towers for the exhibition they got to work. In the sketch by Maurice Kochelin is what they came up with. You can see the sketch the objects on the right show the scale Doctor Dom at the bottom Statue of Liberty above it arc of three on above it they were proposing to build Tower 300 meters tall 1000 feet the tall structure in the world. Coakley and excitedly took their design to the boss to pitch in as you might guess from the other company there boss would know the Gustav himself and benefit look for my competition finished the Garabit Viaduct and was eager to take on another John project he wanted to calm down after that effort and was more the city kept spending money on the giant expansions to and soon over they would tear it back down he felt like to build things of significant things that would last the design competition requirement that syrup is money that the easy to dismantle was a complete nonstarter for him wasn't interested. Coakley and endotype hope to change his mind and get excited grandiose sense of the idea wasn't enough and they got this guy about Stephen in Sylvester and he suggested modifications to the design to make it more useful aesthetically pleasing if you like Coke Coakley's drawing to consider modification he sketched in pencil and see it the first level a glass observation pavilion more importantly at the very top there's a couple with another observation deck and a French flag up on top and the three observation decks lays like decorative arches suggested by so that's back now this Guy was excited Tower were people could view all Paris from height previously reserved for impossible due to weather observation and make radio transmissions from such a high point and so he bought the patent rights for the firm and begin the hard work of getting the design selected the idea immediately popular with the French public. They love nothing more than the idea of dwarfing the completed Washington Monument and besting the Americans. It was not however minimally popular with the architects and artists and most importantly politicians around Paris. And so this was his first writing on the subject if you print speak French I apologize but [ Indiscernible] roughly translated 300 meter high iron tower for the 1889 exhibition this particular copy sold at auction in 2015 for $10,000 is autographed address to General Georges Boulanger a prominent politician who would be the French war minister Eddie would give copies to anyone a given artist in a sociology to Seville Society of civil engineers to present the idea and engineers present were more than happy to do. She credits with Paul founder and editor of the architectural journal and not impressed with the design and felt it was countered to hard work to beautify Paris in the great renovation. Specifically in the issue is Eddie nothing more than anarchic scaffolding across bars and angled iron it looks hideously unfinished. Peer try to pull politician French Prime Minister decried it as anti-artistic contrary to French genius it is a project more in character with America where taste is not very developed in Europe much less France. Charles Garnier a prominent French architect that the most woman's protest against the powerful and the committee of 300 one member forage meter fight for the tower made up of prominent figures in the art and architecture in Paris there protest published in a prominent peer Asian paper LeCompte imagine for a moment to dominate Paris like a black smokestack crushing under his barbaric Notre Dame the live the Arctic all of our humiliated monuments will disappear in this ghastly dream a flair for the dramatic. It was around this time that Edouard Lockroy was named Minister of trade and put in charge of wrapping up competition and look what had been among those who lobbied for the design and despite the protests of the art of he and the rest of the political class of like the design. In calling for final proposal of requirement of the guideline to call for a tower at least 300 meters tall and to gently suggest that it might be built of iron. An obvious fall in the design in the entrance included a 300 meter tall water sprinkler, in case the beautiful gardens often installed and a 300 meter tall lighthouse to display enlightenment affairs to be built of granite and been too heavy to ever build in the best was a three meter guillotine in honor of the French Revolution -- and there's other practical designs as well that were not this far-fetched but in the end he felt design was the only one that had been thought through and was practical or even possible to build. And so in June 12, 1886 look like an overjoyed he felt that his design had been selected Joy was short-lived however as a government rifles estimate of Fr.6 million around 1 million US at the time for building the tower and the government had originally committed to fund the full tower but quickly backtracked to an offer of 1.5 million francs instead one quarter of the cost of the tower he thought investors but remaining four and half million francs and to do that he needs to be able to make money from the tower. And so he requested to provisions in the contract number one that he be allowed to charge admission for going up the tower in addition to what people already paid to get into the fair and number two that the tower remain intact for 20 years at the one year originally slated for so he would have more time to make his money back. The government agreed in principle to this but this created another problem the exhibition with to be held on the Champs de Mars and the south of the Sandy River the was a primary telegram thousand foot tower right in the middle of it. Army was already resigned to losing the drilling ground for the year it would take to assemble and hold the exposition happened every time the French government decided they want to hold the next missionaries to it but having a giant tower in the middle of the drilling ground for 19 years after the exhibition and that that wouldn't do. And so after much negotiating it was agreed that the tower would instead be located in the northwest portion of the shop the March you the bank of the saints leaving the field open for military driven and would complicate this and compromise if you want to get the tower built French bureaucracy being what it was it took another six anxious months for the contract to be finalized in the funding for the place but finally I generate 1887 he thought Ifill had a signed contract and sent email he began gathering supplies and iron workers on January 25 1887 began work on the foundation little over two years until the planned opening of the exposition now I mentioned that moving the tower closer to the saints complicated science that for 6 1/2 six foot slabs of concrete one for each other principal girders the east and south lanes of the tower resting on solid gun on the Champs de Mars of the site in the West and North like our were far more complicated because they were on the site of the site closer to the same and made of millions of years of sediment deposit of the river much less stable each of the four slabs for each leg required to piles 72 feet down to reach a bedrock below the sediment. It required the 6 1/2 foot foundation to be dug out and poured below the water table of the saints -- water infiltration was a huge problem use giant 50 by 20 foot test caissons they pump them full of compressed air to force water out so they can work in dry conditions and poor concrete and be able to drive in the caisson start on the service and seemed further and further down the furniture to the foundation. Five months later on June 30, 1887 the foundations were finished this is what the foundations for each of the four legs look like when completed each foundation peer has bolts embedded to both the shoe of each primary girl in bolts like dining the picture but they are actually about four inches in diameter 25 feet long so pretty significant. Ifill's team began ironwork and you can see how the primary girders attached to the foundation. Now the reason for the angle is twofold first it takes to load coming down the tower and spreads out into both vertical and horizontal loads not putting such a strong vertical pressure to the ground this is important we are dealing with river sediment. The second reason is a make the tower more resilient to win 1000 feet near remember this is twice as tall as anyone's ever built and has more wind exposure than anything anyone spelled and have to build a strong. Work progress quickly large part due to the precision of the drawings by Ifill's office and all their 1700 general guys made in further 3629 Drive specific pieces the position of rivet totals calculate down to 1/10 of a millimeter and angles workout later down to one second of arc which is one 3600 of a degree very precise and were portion drilled in on the 